[Article 3: https://qz.com/2180075/hm-showed-bogus-environmental-higg-index-scores-for-its-clothing]
Quartz investigation: H&M showed bogus environmental scores for its clothing
Fast-fashion giant H&M showed customers environmental scorecards for its clothing that were misleading and, in many cases, outright deceptive, a Quartz investigation has found.
More than half of the scorecards on H&M’s website claimed that a piece of clothing was better for the environment when, in fact, it was no more sustainable than comparable garments made by the company and its competitors. In the most egregious cases, H&M showed data that were the exact opposite of reality.
The findings add to mounting skepticism and new regulatory scrutiny of the fast-fashion industry’s attempt to self-police its environmental record. H&M, the world’s second largest clothing company by sales volume, produces an estimated 3 billion garments per year, much of which goes unsold or is quickly discarded. It has tried to reform its image as a polluter by committing to new emissions goals and touting clothes labeled as a “Conscious Choice,” which were among those displaying the inaccurate data.
H&M removed all the environmental scorecards from its website soon after Quartz told the company about our findings on Monday. Shortly thereafter, a trade group formed by H&M and other major apparel companies said it would “pause” making the scorecard data public while it conducted a review of its methodology. The group said it was responding to a notification from the Norwegian Consumer Authority that questioned sustainability claims made by H&M and other apparel firms that relied on the same data as the scorecards.
The rapid retreat by H&M and its industry peers adds to the argument that there is no such thing as sustainable fast fashion. Even the data now in question, an industry-developed metric known as the Higg Index, merely grades the impact of producing an article of clothing compared to the status quo. It has been widely adopted by apparel makers but brutally criticized by environmental groups.
H&M, based in Stockholm, didn’t respond to our detailed questions about how its environmental scorecards went so awry. In a statement, the company said, “We came across a couple of technical issues that we are looking into,” but didn’t elaborate. It defended the goals of the Higg Index: “We want to be able to share understandable sustainability performance data on a product level and we want this data to be industry standardized.”
Tipping the scorecards in H&M’s favor
The scorecards in question are called Higg Sustainabililty Profiles. They were created by the industry group, known as the Sustainable Apparel Coalition (SAC), to give customers a way to compare the environmental impact of their purchases. The profiles incorporate factors like how much water and fossil fuels were used to create the materials in a piece of clothing, compared to conventional fabrics.
But in many cases, H&M displayed data that gave a totally wrong picture of a garment’s impact on the environment. Those errors came about because the retailer’s website ignored negative signs in Higg Index scores. For instance, a dress with a water-use score of -20%—as in, it uses 20% more water than average—was listed on H&M’s website as using 20% less.
Hard-coding positive language
In fact, words like “less” and “reduction” were written, or hard-coded, into H&M’s website such that its environmental scorecards could only offer a green picture of its clothing, our investigation found.
Of the 600 women’s clothing scorecards on H&M’s UK site last week, more than 100 of them included errors that made less sustainable clothing appear to be the opposite. The scorecards were in use on H&M’s US and European websites since May 2021, but we couldn’t determine if the errors were there all along.
Like all retail websites, H&M’s contains placeholder text in its code to accompany data about a particular product that’s usually fetched from a database. On product pages that included information about the Higg Index, the placeholders assumed only the best. This is what some of the code looked like:
breakdownLabels: { waterUse: 'less water use', co2: 'less global warming potential', chemicals: 'Chemicals', waterPollution: 'less water pollution', fossil: 'less fossil fuels use' },
Another bit of placeholder text, now deleted, read “{0} less than conventional materials.” The value in braces would change based on the particular data. But there was no alternative text for the many products with more impact than conventional materials.
Scorecards for unremarkable products
The vast majority of items on H&M’s website have never included a scorecard. Those garments that did were surrounded by text about their environmental record and included on a special page featuring a women’s hand reaching into the clouds.
One might assume these garments were better for the environment than typical, but simply having a Higg Index rating does not mean a garment is more sustainable. Over half of the garments with scorecards in our analysis showed no improvement from the
[Article 4: https://www.thesustainablefashionforum.com/pages/hm-is-being-sued-for-misleading-sustainability-marketing-what-does-this-mean-for-the-future-of-greenwashing]
H&M is Being Sued For “Misleading” Sustainability Marketing. What Does This Mean for the Future of Greenwashing?
Images: H&M
H&M is being sued for '“false” and “misleading” sustainability marketing. In a class-action lawsuit filed on July 22nd, Plaintiff Chelsea Commodore, a New York state resident, alleges that despite its position as a fast-fashion giant, H&M is deceptively capitalizing on the growing segment of conscious consumers by creating an extensive marketing scheme to greenwash its products and present them as environmentally friendly when they are not.
Commodore alleges that among other things, H&M's sustainability labeling, marketing, and advertising is “designed to mislead consumers through the use of false environmental sustainability profiles. In addition to these profiles, the lawsuit alleges that H&M makes various misrepresentations regarding the sustainable nature of its products, including H&M's ability to close-the-loop and prevent textiles from going to the landfill through its recycling program.
According to the lawsuit, H&M’s created illusion “that old clothes are simply turned into new garments, or that clothes will not end up in a landfill” is misleading, adding that “recycling solutions either do not exist or are not commercially available at scale for the vast majority of H&M's products. Even still, Commodore argues, “it would take H&M more than a decade to recycle what it sells in a matter of days.
On the heels of the H&M lawsuit, UK watchdog, Competition and Markets Authority (CMA) announced on July 29th that it would investigate Asos, Boohoo, and other fashion brands over claims about the sustainable nature of their products. “Should we find these companies are using misleading eco claims, we won't hesitate to take enforcement action – through the courts if necessary,” said CMA interim Chief Executive Sarah Cardell in a statement. “This is just the start of our work in this sector, and all fashion companies should take note: look at your own practices and make sure they are in line with the law,” she added.
As the global climate crisis continues to mount and consumers increasingly want to align their purchases with their values, brands are responding by making sustainability commitments, setting climate goals, and vowing to minimize their environmental impact. However, as customer interest in fashion's footprint has increased, so has greenwashing — falsified and/or misleading messages that deceive the public and bury the reality of a brand's sustainability efforts concerning their product, service, or policies.
Vague buzzwords, narrowly focused cherry-picked goals, nonexistent timelines, and green claims unsupported by credible data plague the fashion industry. Without a universally agreed-upon definition of sustainability or an established benchmark for even the minimum actions required to be considered a “sustainable” company, brands often fall into greenwashing, well-intentioned or not.
However, if the recent investigations are any indication, the landscape may be changing. “Regulation is coming for fashion brands,” said Michelle Gabriel, Professor of Sustainable Fashion Strategy at Glasgow Caledonian New York College (GCNYC). “Brands should reconsider their sustainability strategy, operations, and communication with future possible regulatory compliance in mind. The cost to both reputation and the bottom line for brands finding themselves in the cross hairs of forced change due to new regulations is high.”
In the lawsuit filed against H&M, a June investigation by the news outlet Quartz was cited claiming that more than half of H&M's sustainability profiles portrayed products as being better for the environment than they actually were and, in some cases, were allegedly completely untrue. Those scorecards were based on Higg MSI (Materials Sustainability Index) data, part of a widely used suite of impact measurement tools that have faced growing criticism and recent controversy.
Following the Quartz investigation, H&M removed its Higg sustainability profiles. Shortly after, the Sustainable Apparel Coalition (SAC), which owns and oversees the methodology and suite of tools the MSI is a part of, said it would be suspending the use of its consumer-facing sustainability profiles and product seals. The decision came after Norwegian authorities concluded that H&M and other brands would be “breaking the law” for using the MSI's methodology to market their products as more environmentally sustainable.
Without cohesive legislation, for many brands, third-party certifications and ranking systems have become tools to help guide them on their sustainability journey, assess and measure sustainability credentials, and establish credibility amongst customers and investors. However, as misinformation runs rampant and industry tools come under fire for perpetuating false data and enabling greenwashing, how can brands manage, verify and communicate their product impact claims?
“It's very challenging for a fashion brand to understand boundaries when communicating about sustainability and impact,” said Gabriel. “That doesn't absolve them of the responsibility to communicate about sustainability or impact honestly and effectively, but the non-linear nature of sustainability, the limited amount of sustainability communication experts in the space, the lack of any clear standards or regulations, and the fear of being called out create a really challenging dynamic to
[Article 5: https://www.business-humanrights.org/fr/derni%C3%A8res-actualit%C3%A9s/usa-hm-faces-greenwashing-class-action-lawsuit-over-alleged-misleading-false-marketing-of-sustainable-clothing-line/]
USA: H&M faces 'greenwashing' class-action lawsuit over alleged misleading & false marketing of ‘sustainable’ clothing line
"H&M is facing a class-action lawsuit over its wrong environmental scores", 4 August 2022
Auteur: Amanda Shendruk, Quartz
4 sep 2022
H&M is being sued over misleading and false sustainability marketing. The proposed class-action complaint...claims H&M’s advertising is “designed to mislead consumers about its products’ environmental attributes.”
The lawsuit was filed in a New York federal court by Chelsea Commodore, a resident of New York state who purchased several items H&M sold under the label “conscious choice.” According to the retailer’s marketing materials, those products are made with “at least 50% of more sustainable materials.”
Commodore claims H&M “misrepresented the nature of its products, at the expense of consumers who pay a price premium in the belief that they are buying truly sustainable and environmentally friendly clothing.”
An H&M representative said the company takes Commodore’s allegations seriously and is “looking into them thoroughly.” They added the retailer has no further comment on the lawsuit at this time.
In June, Quartz published an investigation that found H&M showed customers environmental scorecards for its clothing that were misleading and, in a number of cases, entirely incorrect. The scorecards were meant to give customers a way to compare the environmental impact of their purchases, according to factors like how much water and fossil fuels were used to create the materials in a piece of clothing.
Quartz’s reporting showed more than half of the scorecards claimed that a piece of clothing was better for the environment when, in fact, it was no more sustainable than comparable garments made by the company. And in some cases, the data displayed were entirely wrong. These scorecards have now been removed from all of H&M’s websites.
Quartz’s findings underpin Commodore’s lawsuit, which also points to other forms of alleged H&M greenwashing. The lawsuit also questions the company’s claims on the sustainable content of its “conscious choice” collection and argues the company’s recycling program is misleading.
“Based on [H&M’s] extensive greenwashing campaign, a reasonable consumer would expect the Products to be sustainable,” states the document, which claims H&M’s practices put it in violation of New York General Business Law...