H&M Group aims to create a responsive and responsible value chain by optimizing production and resource use while respecting human rights to minimize negative impact on people and the planet.
H&M Group wants customers to celebrate self-expression with confidence that they are making a sustainable choice.
H&M Group's sustainability reporting is based on the results of an impact materiality analysis covering impacts across own operations as well as upstream and downstream value chain.
H&M Group has been conducting materiality analysis in line with applicable Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Standards.
In 2023, H&M Group began developing materiality analysis process to align with Corporate Sustainability Reporting Directive (CSRD) and European Sustainability Reporting Standards (ESRS).
The annual and sustainability report 2024 and impact materiality analysis has been prepared to align with format of upcoming reporting requirements but does not claim compliance with CSRD or ESRS.
Sustainability report is prepared in accordance with GRI and requirements on statutory sustainability reporting in Swedish Annual Accounts Act.
Sustainability director is responsible for setting sustainability strategy integrated into business idea and implemented throughout H&M Group.
Sustainability director reports on sustainability goals and key performance indicators biannually to board of directors and quarterly to CEO and CFO.
Audit committee monitors effectiveness of internal control and risk management reporting regularly to board of directors.
H&M Group's corporate governance structure encompasses shareholders, board of directors, audit and nomination committees, auditors, CEO and executive management team, business areas organized by brand, employees and employee organizations.
Board of directors consists of 14 non-executive members including three employee representatives and three deputy employee representatives.
Percentage of female board members is 57 percent while percentage of male board members is 43 percent and board's gender diversity ratio is 75 percent.
Percentage of board members excluding employee representatives and deputies independent of company and company management is 100 percent.
Percentage of board members independent of majority stakeholders in company is 75 percent.
H&M Group performs due diligence to identify and assess risks and impacts within own business and with business partners in relation to relevant external and internal requirements.
H&M Group takes systematic approach to Human Rights and Environmental Due Diligence (HREDD) by continuously identifying assessing mitigating and remedying potential and actual negative impacts on people or planet.
H&M Group's HREDD is integrated into corporate governance and risk management process to ensure business decisions consider impact on affected stakeholders.
H&M Group's responsible business conduct (RBC) policy sets out additional steps required for conducting HREDD applying to operations value chain and communities where we operate.
H&M Group's HREDD process is based on OECD Guidelines for Multinational Enterprises and UN Guiding Principles and other relevant legislation where applicable.
H&M Group carries out regular risk assessments to identify risks to business financial position or performance.
H&M Group's risk management process is set out by corporate governance function and includes identification and assessment of sustainability related risks.
Assessment is based on analysis of events over short-term (less than one year) medium-term (one to five years) and long-term (five to fifteen years).
H&M Group believes fashion and design should not be limited to the few.
With several clearly positioned brands businesses and ventures each with unique identity H&M Group meets customers' ever-increasing expectations and diverse needs.
H&M Group's aim is to make positive power of fashion available for everyone to enjoy while minimizing negative impact on people and planet.
H&M Group's strong financial position and long-term approach enable continued investment in new ventures and initiatives to support transition towards sustainable design and fashion industry.
H&M Group's sustainability work is centred around key impact areas identified through stakeholder engagements and analysis of value chain.
H&M Group's key impact areas inform overall business strategy and idea to ensure meeting stakeholders' expectations.
Key impact areas include climate water chemicals and pollution land-use and biodiversity raw materials and resource use and people.
These areas are deeply interconnected requiring holistic approach to minimize associated business risks and negative impacts.
H&M Group's sustainability strategy and targets are aligned with aim to build more responsive and responsible value chain that delivers fashion and quality at best price in sustainable way.
H&M Group continuously engages with stakeholders across value chain to ensure material matters are identified prioritized and incorporated into company's business activities and procedures.
Interaction with key stakeholders includes workshops and surveys to understand how they may be impacted by value chain activities and their view on mitigation actions.
H&M Group works closely and regularly with key stakeholders through dedicated stakeholder engagement team.
H&M Group systematically integrates feedback received into strategies and priorities to ensure delivery on business idea.
H&M Group's value chain includes activities required to design manufacture and sell products.
As global company H&M Group recognizes impact on many stakeholders across value chain.
Through own operations H&M Group has impact on employees customers and business partners and is committed to acting with respect towards all people engaged.
Own operations include in-house design teams in-store services and online sale and distribution of clothes accessories footwear cosmetics and homeware sold through unique brands.
Upstream value chain includes sourcing processing production and transportation of materials and input goods such as cotton and wool required to produce goods.
Like most fashion brands H&M Group does not own factories but works with independent manufacturers to produce goods sold.
Large part of negative environmental impact occurs in upstream value chain particularly during textile manufacturing processes which are resource intensive.
Upstream business activities have large impact on workers in supply chain employed at different production facilities as well as on people living in communities affected by sourcing and processing of raw materials and natural resources.
Downstream value chain includes use reuse resell recycling and disposal of clothes textiles and homeware.
Along downstream value chain H&M Group has impact on customers and communities operated in as well as environment through resource outflows and generation of waste.
Through investment arm H&M Group ventures H&M Group continues to explore new business models and partnerships with aim to reduce environmental negative impact and improve customer offering.
Products are at centre of business model and everything done to ensure offer best combination of fashion design quality and sustainability at affordable prices.
H&M Group aims to build resilient business and value chain that supports transition towards sustainable fashion industry.
To identify and prioritise sustainability matters along value chain most relevant to business H&M Group analyses inputs from stakeholders and investors in materiality analysis.
H&M Group starts yearly materiality analysis process by identifying possible impact areas as part of overall risk management process using wide range of sources including OECD sector risks topical ESRS GRI standards and systematic analysis of stakeholder inputs and expectations.
Identified matters are assessed and prioritised at end of year by subject matter experts.
Process is coordinated by sustainability department responsible for ensuring consistency and alignment of methodologies and assumptions used.
Identification of relevant sustainability impact areas along value chain through continuous dialogue with key stakeholders and international organisations such as ILO OECD international trade unions human rights organisations and policymakers during year.
Assessment and prioritisation of relevant sustainability impact areas based on severity and likelihood of impact.
Severity is calculated as average between scale scope and irremediable character of impact.
Assessment of sustainability impact is closely connected to overall risk management process to ensure processes are aligned.
Threshold for impact materiality is based on inherent impact level.
Monitoring and reporting prioritised sustainability matters.
Relevant matters are categorised and listed in overall risk management system along with associated mitigation plans and actions and are monitored during year to follow up on effectiveness of actions.
Prioritised matters form basis of sustainability strategy and reporting.
Large part of environmental impact occurs in upstream value chain particularly during textile manufacturing processes such as dyeing and washing which are often energy and water intensive.
H&M Group recognises impact business has on planet and believes must work with others to enable necessary systemic change across wider fashion industry to reduce negative impact and dependence on extraction of natural resources.
Communities and ecosystems around world are experiencing effects of climate change firsthand.
H&M Group recognises that business activities related to design production and transportation of materials and products across value chain contribute to climate change through release of GHG emissions.
Largest impact on climate and environment occurs in upstream value chain during production and processing of materials such as cotton and polyester.
Dependence on raw materials and natural resources along with increased frequency of extreme weather events could lead to increased sourcing and production costs posing financial risk to business.
H&M Group's ambition is to contribute to limiting of global warming to 1.5°C in line with Paris Agreement.
H&M Group aims to achieve this by decarbonising supply chain optimising production and improving resource efficiency.
To reach ambition H&M Group has integrated accountability for reaching climate targets into core business throughout brands and operations.
H&M Group has developed five-step climate action framework which guides and supports climate ambition and commitment to help reduce negative impact on planet.
Senior executives' variable remuneration depends on fulfilment of targets in various areas of business plan in total which include sustainability where GHG emission reduction is key component.
H&M Group's climate transition plan functions as strategic action plan for organisation to reach 2030 climate targets.
It outlines emission reduction journey and key enablers to reach targets.
Transition plan presents targets strategy and methodology related to climate and is reviewed by H&M Group board of directors and approved by CEO.
To identify and manage impacts risks and opportunities related to climate change H&M Group frequently engages with affected stakeholders.
H&M Group has undertaken qualitative scenario analysis to identify climate-related risks to business.
Analysis used climate models and company specific data to identify which physical and transition hazards are most likely to impact operations across value chain.
Using Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures (TCFD) framework analysis was carried out over short- medium- and long-term across three different scenarios.
Results of analysis show that increasing frequency and severity of extreme weather events may influence availability and price of raw materials and resources such as cotton and water potentially increasing sourcing and production costs in long-term.
Increased carbon taxes may also lead to higher production costs in medium to long-term if not mitigated through use of new production technologies.
While climate change poses risk to current business model it also creates opportunities for H&M Group to accelerate transition towards sustainable fashion industry and adapt strategy by decoupling growth from resource use and extraction.
H&M Group's work is guided by environmental policy which states commitment to reducing climate impact in line with Paris Agreement to limit global warming to 1.5°C.
Policy does not address climate change adaptation energy efficiency or renewable energy deployment specifically but these underpin strategy to reach science-based targets and manage climate-related financial risks in operations and value chain.
H&M Group's sustainability commitment which applies to all business partners and suppliers includes requirements related to reduction of GHG emissions.
To reach ambition and limit global warming to 1.5°C H&M Group has set targets related to GHG emissions and energy consumption across value chain.
H&M Group continually evaluates climate targets metrics disclosures and annual progress with dual focus improving calculation methods and reporting of climate data and consultation with external stakeholders such as WWF Stand.earth and United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change (UNFCCC).
H&M Group has set targets to reduce absolute scope 1 and 2 GHG emissions by 56 percent by 2030 against 2019 baseline and reduce absolute scope 3 GHG emissions by 56 percent by 2030 against 2019 baseline.
H&M Group has set targets to reduce absolute scope 1 and 2 GHG emissions by 90 percent by 2040 and reduce absolute scope 3 GHG emissions by 90 percent by 2040 against 2019 baseline.
In 2040 overall target is to reach net zero by balancing out any remaining emissions through use of permanent carbon dioxide removal.
These targets have been validated against Science Based Targets initiative (SBTi) net zero standard and formally approved by SBTi during 2022 as in line with latest climate science to limit global warming to 1.5°C above pre-industrial levels.
In addition to emission reduction targets H&M Group has set supporting targets that contribute to reaching ambition.
For stores H&M Group has set target to achieve 36 percent reduction in electricity consumption per square metre and opening hour by 2030 against 2016 baseline.
This is updated target as previous 2030 target reached in 2023.
For own operations as whole H&M Group has set target to source 100 percent renewable electricity including at least 50 percent from power purchase agreements with new renewable electricity generation by 2030.
For supply chain H&M Group has set target to source 100 percent renewable electricity for garment production from spinning to finished product by 2030.
H&M Group has set target to completely phase out coal from garment supply chain by 2026.
For emissions related to raw material sourcing H&M Group has target to increase share of recycled materials.
Current levers towards reaching 2030 climate targets in line with limiting global warming to 1.5°C mainly focus on implemented regulations and public policies currently available technology and prevailing market conditions.
Through climate transition plan H&M Group outlines key changes needed in legal framework and explains how driving these changes across every part of value chain.
In addition to increasing share of renewable electricity H&M Group is committed to procuring in more impactful ways.
H&M Group is entering power purchase agreements (PPA) with renewable energy developers to bring new generation capacity to electrical grids where operate.
To date H&M Group has signed ten PPAs with solar parks in UK (1) Spain (3) US (1) Poland (1) and Sweden (4).
At end of 2024 five PPAs were operational and covered 20 percent of total electricity consumption up from 10 percent last year.
Total capacity secured through signed PPAs is 380 MW and expected to generate 600 GWh of renewable electricity annually when operational.
In 2024 H&M Group sourced renewable electricity equal to 96 percent of group's total electricity use.
When procuring standalone energy attribute certificates (EACs) H&M Group focuses on lowest-impact sources primarily wind and solar.
All EAC purchases comply with RE100 technical criteria.
H&M Group is rolling out energy efficiency programmes such as real-time monitoring LED lighting installing motion sensors and adjusting indoor temperatures.
In 2024 production of goods in tier 1 2 and 3 accounted for about 48 percent of H&M Group's total GHG emissions.
H&M Group's team of energy experts provides suppliers with free energy audits to identify potential efficiency improvements.
Key focus areas include waste heat recovery from various manufacturing processes focusing on dyeing process efficiency and replacing fossil fuel-driven boilers.
In 2024 energy efficiency programme enrolled 78 new facilities identifying potential reductions of more than 656000 tonnes CO2e throughout year.
Since launch in 2021 programme has initiated 1027 projects implemented by suppliers resulting in total expected annual reductions of 350000 tonnes CO2e.
These initiatives will generate financial savings for suppliers reduce energy usage increase feasibility to electrify processes and enable lowering emissions.
GHG emissions per unit energy used or carbon intensity is key metric for energy profile used to track progress of individual supplier facilities.
H&M Group is working closely with business partners and local stakeholders in production markets to accelerate total substitution of coal.
To meet heat and steam energy demands in textile supply chain H&M Group prioritises electrification supported by procurement of renewable electricity along with use of ground or air-source heat pumps and on-site solar photovoltaic systems (PVs).
Where electrification not yet feasible H&M Group prioritises producing thermal energy from agricultural residues as transitional solution.
By consolidating number of suppliers and facilities worked with as well as deepening collaboration with those already using low-carbon energy sources H&M Group can reduce GHG emissions in supply chain.
There is need for direct financial support in supply chain to finance measures related to reducing greenhouse gas emissions.
H&M Group's Green Fashion Initiative supports suppliers to replace use of fossil fuels.
Since start H&M Group has funded total of 23 projects with potential emission reduction of 148000 tonnes Co2e annually of which 67000 tonnes CO2e attributed to H&M Group's efforts.
During 2024 operational projects resulted in reduction of 98000 tonnes CO2e of which 45000 tonnes CO2e attributed to H&M Group.
H&M Group is actively expanding use of preferred transport options which include electric and zero emissions vehicles with emphasis on electric vehicles (EVs).
In regions where EV infrastructure less advanced H&M Group uses biofuels as transitional alternative.
H&M Group is cutting total number of transport journeys through initiatives such as using parcel collection points instead of direct home delivery.
H&M Group is refining returns management and store replenishment processes.
Ongoing initiatives include improving load efficiency consolidating shipments and optimising delivery schedules.
H&M Group has introduced strategy to channel investments effectively balancing reduction opportunities with financial viability.
Within green investments H&M Group measures return on investment by emissions reductions rather than financial gain.
As most emissions are in scope 3 H&M Group has dedicated programme to decarbonise supply chain by providing finance to suppliers.
Limited technical expertise restricted access to finance high interest rates and low financial return are common barriers to suppliers when considering decarbonisation interventions.
H&M Group addresses these barriers by offering technical support through in-house energy experts and financing on favourable terms made possible by financial position and wide network of banking partners.
H&M Group has identified range of technical and financial solutions that support suppliers to reduce emissions in cost-effective way adapting to different needs.
This involves renewable electricity energy efficiency measures and switching to sustainably sourced materials and logistics.
H&M Group's decarbonisation investment strategy includes risk evaluation and alternative cost.
Using alternative cost analysis to identify economic impact of transformational investments enables informed decision-making by assessing long-term risks and benefits of climate action.
Investments help bridge gap between aspirational goals and concrete achievements accelerating sustainability progress.
As market evolves and customers expectations increase innovative climate solutions can create competitive advantages and new business opportunities.
Driving innovation to enhance resource efficiency and reduce costs.
Like many other fashion retailers H&M Group cooperates with suppliers around world.
Often H&M Group shares manufacturing capacity with other companies and purchases small share of total volume produced.
To achieve emission reduction goals H&M Group must support full upgrade of suppliers' facilities and machinery.
Scope 3 emissions decrease only in proportion to share of facility's production.
By sharing costs industry can achieve more significant reductions than individual brands could on own.
Collaborative financing between industry peers banks NGOs and financial bodies is vital to amplify and accelerate transition.
H&M Group is lead partner of Apparel Impact Institute's (Aii) Fashion Climate Fund and one of driving forces behind Future Supplier Initiative which brings together brands to collectively finance decarbonisation projects for shared suppliers.
It limits cost of borrowing for factories and enables access to technical support as well as offering potential to build long-term resilient business relationships with brands.
Decarbonising entire value chain will require collective effort and innovative financial solutions.
To address this H&M Group has partnered with consultancy firm Guidehouse to create collaborative financing tool.
This tool allows brands that share suppliers to form cohort supporting suppliers with technical assistance and financing through banks with backing of brands.
In 2024 first cohort of Future Supplier Initiative launched facilitated by Fashion Pact and Aii.
H&M Group issues sustainable financing in form of green and sustainability-linked bonds to align sustainability priorities with financial strategy and provide investors with transparency on investments and performance towards key sustainability targets.
In 2024 total spend on decarbonisation activities across value chain was approximately SEK 1.7 billion.
This includes initiatives aimed at phasing out fossil fuels supporting energy efficiency and replacing conventional materials with recycled or sustainably sourced alternatives.
By replacing conventional materials with recycled or sustainably sourced alternatives this helps reduce GHG emissions.
Collaborative financing initiatives including Climate Fund by Apparel Impact Institute drive collective action to reduce GHG emissions in fashion industry's supply chain with H&M as one of lead partners.
H&M Group is key driver of Future Supplier Initiative which enables brands to collectively finance decarbonisation projects with shared suppliers that produce fabric and finished garments.
Financing projects that enable factories to invest in technologies and processes to reduce energy demand and replace fossil fuel as well as support suppliers in getting access to renewable electricity.
Providing factory energy audits to identify energy efficiency initiatives.
Investing in energy efficiency improvements in facilities which reduces energy consumption and helps reduce GHG emissions.
H&M Group engages directly with national and regional policymakers across main retail and production markets and indirectly through participation in stakeholder platforms and partnerships including UN Framework Convention on Climate Change Fashion Charter WWF World Economic Forum (WEF) and RE100.
H&M Group's primary objective is to support public policy shift in key production markets to improve availability and accessibility of renewable energy.
This involves collaboration with local governments in Bangladesh Cambodia mainland China India Indonesia Türkiye and Vietnam as well as engaging with EU institutions and member states to gain further support for decarbonisation in production markets.
In production markets H&M Group engages with governments and industry organisations to advance legislation.
In Bangladesh H&M Group is working actively to develop Corporate Power Purchasing Agreements (CPPA) framework that will facilitate direct access to renewable energy for corporate users and support country's commitment to reduce GHG emissions.
In Vietnam H&M Group advocated for public policy and regulations to support transition to renewable energy and welcomed successful launch of Vietnam's Direct Power Purchase Agreements (DPPA) in July 2024.
In mainland China H&M Group engaged with National Energy Administration to support development of public policies around green power trading and welcome introduction of several policies to enhance trading mechanism to boost renewable energy access for supply chain.
In Indonesia together with other organisations H&M Group successfully advocated for removing cap on installed capacity for rooftop PV systems paving way for greater adoption of solar energy across country.
At global level H&M Group continued to engage with influential stakeholders and policy makers to advocate for legislation which will enable decarbonisation of value chain.
H&M Group became signatories of WEF COP 29 Open Letter calling for enhanced collaboration between public and private sector to deliver on Paris Agreement.
H&M Group joined Corporate Leaders Group Europe one of founders of We Mean Business coalition and ambitious and influential player at European and global level.
With CLG Europe H&M Group had opportunity to meet Executive Vice President of European Commission to discuss setting EU climate target of at least 90 percent reduction by 2040.
H&M Group's internal carbon pricing supports work to reduce GHG emissions from raw materials production processes and transports covering about 66 percent of total scope 3 emissions in 2024.
Scope 1 and 2 emissions are not covered by carbon price.
As tool for driving behavioral change it applies shadow price on emissions influencing decision-making within company.
Specific price is set as function of H&M Group's emissions and cost of sold goods to result in increase in price as emissions decrease enabling additional actions to be taken.
Carbon price used in climate risk analysis is based on expected carbon taxes and border adjustment mechanisms and is not same as internal carbon price.
Permanent carbon dioxide removal methods are designed to remove and store carbon dioxide durably.
To achieve global net zero emissions by mid-century this technology must be expanded.
H&M Group needs carbon dioxide removal to achieve 2040 net zero target to balance out any GHG emissions that remain after achieved at least 90 percent absolute reductions.
By supporting emerging sector now H&M Group can help drive growth secure supply in market expected to face supply constraints and inspire others to become early adopters of carbon removal.
In 2022 H&M Group signed first contract for permanent carbon dioxide removal using direct air capture and storage via multi-year agreement with Climeworks.
In 2023 H&M Group joined Frontier and made advance market commitment for carbon removal along with other members.
Since joining H&M Group has entered eight offtake agreements which are contracts to buy permanent carbon removals once delivered.
Numerous offtake agreements entered into to date are important step forwards and hope they will encourage further growth in market by signalling clear demand and attracting investment.
In 2022 H&M Group joined Lowering Emissions by Accelerating Forest Finance (LEAF) Coalition as corporate partner.
Coalition brings together public and private sector buyers to purchase high-quality carbon credits from forest governments that have implemented jurisdictional REDD+ programmes to reduce deforestation.
REDD+ stands for Reducing emissions from deforestation and forest degradation in developing countries and is process moderated by UNFCCC.
This financing provides viable economic alternative to clearing forests for uses such as agriculture and can encourage governments to introduce public policies to protect forests enforce laws to stop illegal deforestation and provide economic incentives to landowners to preserve forests.
Amazon rainforest is identified as one of ecosystems critical to stabilise in near-term to avoid tipping point which could further accelerate climate changes.
H&M Group was among first companies to support fight against deforestation in Amazon rainforest with LEAF Coalition and deal with Brazilian state Pará.
Under agreement LEAF Coalition buyers including H&M Group have committed to purchasing over 4 million emissions reduction credits.
H&M Group makes no claims of GHG neutrality based on purchase of these carbon credits.
H&M Group's absolute scope 1 and 2 emissions decreased by 41 percent compared with 2019 baseline.
Compared to last year this is decrease of 25 percent or 13607 tonnes CO2e.
This reduction is primarily driven by increase in procurement of renewable electricity through PPAs and unbundled renewable energy certificates.
During 2024 H&M Group added Philippines and Colombia to countries source renewable electricity for bringing total to 96 percent.
H&M Group's absolute scope 3 emissions excluding use-phase emissions decreased by 23.7 percent compared with 2019 baseline reduction of 2160000 tonnes CO2e.
Compared to 2023 emissions increased by 201000 tonnes CO2e or about 3 percent.
This can be attributed largely to two factors increase in total material weight during year and small increase in air freight to just below 3 percent share of inbound transports up from very low share historically and still below 2019 figure.
Ongoing efforts to shift to cleaner energy in supply chain showing results as emissions from fabric production increased less (3 percent) than total garment material weight (8 percent) all compared to 2023.
Reductions since base year primarily driven by increased share of recycled and sustainably sourced materials for garments and packaging and shift to cleaner energy and energy efficiency improvements in supply chain.
While emissions still linked to resource use total scope 3 emissions per revenue (tonnes of CO2e/SEK million) decreased by 24 percent compared to 2019 and increased by 4 percent compared to 2023.
H&M Group has achieved 32 percent reduction in electricity intensity in stores measured per square metre and opening hour compared with 2016 baseline.
H&M Group has raised 2030 target increasing from 25 percent to 36 percent.
96 percent of electricity purchased for operations was renewable (94 percent in 2023) including 20 percent from power purchase agreements with new renewable electricity generation.
Power purchase agreements supply long-term renewable energy at fixed price and increase amount of renewable electricity on electrical grids.
Number of garment supplier factories in tier 1 and 2 reporting use of on-site coal boilers decreased by 19 units in 2024 to total of 27 units.
This has decreased from 118 units in 2022.
Decrease result of continued efforts in phasing out on-site coal changes in supplier base local legislation and H&M Group pushing for increased electrification of steam production.
During 2024 H&M Group increased traceability and energy reporting coverage to include tier 3 in garment supply chain.
With increased scope identified 12 tier 3 facilities using coal increasing total number of units to 39.
H&M Group will include these in reporting scope in future as well as in target to phase out on-site coal entirely from all garment suppliers in tiers 1 2 and 3.
Current dataset covers all tier 1 and most tier 2 and 3 suppliers meaning do not expect to find significant number of additional units using on-site coal across tiers.
H&M Group continually works to improve data availability and quality to capture emissions as accurately as possible.
In 2024 used sales-country level waste statistics for domestic waste treatment as well as exports and end-point country waste treatments to better estimate how products moved and treated once reach end-of-life.
These changes led to decrease in emissions from end-of-life treatment by 30 percent or 26613 tonnes CO2e for 2023 compared to reported in 2023 sustainability disclosure.
For other expenditures updated data set for emission factors to include annual development of emissions.
Improved overall calculation method for emissions of other expenditures and resolved issue with over-estimating emission of some packaging.
These changes led to combined increase in emissions within other expenditures by 25 percent or 119792 tonnes CO2e for 2023 compared to reported in last year report.
Improved emissions calculation model for fabric production and garment manufacturing to better capture placement of production processes.
This led to decrease in emissions from these activities of 5 percent or 188290 tonnes of CO2e for 2023.
Error found where some upstream emissions from energy used in production not included.
This led to increase of emissions from these activities by 1 percent or by 42546 tonnes CO2e for 2023 compared to reported in 2023 sustainability disclosure.
Updates in emission factor database MSI used for non-garment products and raw-materials most notably addition of specific emission factor for BCI cotton led to decrease in emissions within these areas by 1.7 percent or 26011 tonnes CO2e for 2023 compared to reported in 2023 Sustainability Disclosure.
Updates in scope 1 & 2 updated 2023 figures replacing some estimates with actual data and including distribution center in Poland mainly used by Sellpy.
This update results in increase in scope 1 & 2 emissions by 1 percent or 457 tonnes CO2e for 2023 compared to reported in 2023 sustainability disclosure.
For baseline year adjusted refrigerants data due to incorrect square meter data used for stores in 2019 resulting in decrease of 2 percent or 1458 tonnes CO2e in scope 1 and 2 for that year compared to reported in 2023.
Chemicals are essential to everyday lives and used during production process and manufacturing of clothes when washing and dyeing fabrics and textiles.
One of largest environmental impacts originates from chemical use during textile production and processing and from farming of cotton where risk that hazardous substances end up in water discharges or reside in materials and finished products.
H&M Group is committed to ensuring products produced and used in way that prioritises health and safety of people and ecosystems.
This includes minimising pollution and eliminating hazardous discharge into water or soil during sourcing processing and production of input materials.
Guided by chemical roadmap H&M Group works to continuously improve safe management of chemicals in value chain.
H&M Group focuses efforts on tracing engaging being transparent using best available chemistries avoiding discharge into water and collaborating across value chain to ensure good chemical management.
H&M Group continuously measures levels of pollutants in wastewater in supply chain to identify negative impacts from use of chemicals during manufacturing processes.
H&M Group's chemical requirements for suppliers usually exceed existing regulations and promote progressive chemical management.
Hazardous chemicals should not be used in production or found in any products.
H&M Group was one of first in industry to establish chemical restrictions list in 1995 which constantly updated and suppliers contractually bound to comply with list.
H&M Group's work is guided by environmental policy which states progressive approach to chemical management that goes beyond legal compliance to ensure safety of chemicals used.
Policy includes commitments to industry standards and actions to ensure safe use of products and safe manufacturing processes.
H&M Group aims to develop holistic pollution strategy covering water and chemical pollution throughout value chain.
This will include addressing substances of concern and of very high concern in end products as well as fibre fragmentation during production and in customer use phase.
H&M Group's sustainability commitment which applies to all business partners and suppliers includes requirements concerning safety of chemical handling and storage as well as environmental requirements such as treatment of wastewater and handling of hazardous waste.
H&M Group follows Apparel and Footwear International RSL Management (AFIRM) Restricted Substances List (RSL) and Zero Discharge of Hazardous Chemicals (ZDHC) Manufacturing Restricted Substances List (MRSL) as well as ZDHC Wastewater Guidelines and Chemical Management System.
Beyond industry standards H&M Group's chemical restriction lists include additional limitations on potentially harmful substances.
To ensure choose safe chemical alternatives H&M Group prioritises third-party hazard-assessed chemicals such as screened chemistry-certified options wherever feasible.
For chemical pollution in wastewater H&M Group follows ZDHC wastewater guidelines which in most cases stricter than local regulations.
Wastewater testing conducted annually for all units included in chemical scope and results publicly disclosed on Powering Sustainability with Transparency.
H&M Group encourages textile and leather suppliers to implement ZDHC wastewater guidelines and ZDHC chemical management system.
In product safety work H&M Group takes account of sensitivity of most vulnerable customer group with stricter product chemical requirements for babies and children.
This includes proactive elimination of hazardous chemicals such as PFAS and DMF phased out ahead of regulatory mandates.
H&M Group actively collaborates with industry partners to influence and drive progress on product safety.
H&M Group does this by sharing insights best practices and supporting international product safety standards through stakeholder dialogues.
H&M Group conducts unannounced quality tests at on-site Effluent Treatment Plants (ETP) focusing on key conventional parameters.
In cases of non-compliance corrective actions required followed by immediate retesting and ongoing monthly tests to ensure continuous compliance and water safety.
Monthly chemical usage reports from suppliers submitted to ZDHC Gateway Chemical Module which tracks chemical usage provides database of safer alternatives and offers performance insights through InCheck report.
This platform helps suppliers evaluate and transition to safer chemical products ensuring MRSL compliance.
Suppliers share wastewater test results in ZDHC Gateway Water Module to meet ZDHC wastewater guidelines.
This module's ClearStream report benchmarks wastewater management performance supporting continuous improvements in safe wastewater handling and reducing harmful discharges.
H&M Group aims for 100 percent compliance with ZDHC MRSL across all chemical inputs and wastewater.
This target measured annually to ensure no hazardous chemicals used in production processes by suppliers.
H&M Group made continued progress in reducing water pollution in supply chain.
H&M Group maintained steady progress toward target of 100 percent MRSL compliance for chemical inputs and wastewater in tier 1 and 2 production factories with similar results as last year.
2024 MRSL compliance score is 97.1 percent compared with 96.6 percent in 2023.
Share of production factories enrolled in ZDHC programme was 97.6 percent in 2024.
Fashion industry is one of largest consumers of water and main impact related to water use occurs in upstream value chain during production and processing of fabrics and textiles.
Water shortages and poor water management are critical global issues that affect communities and ecosystems across value chain and pose risk to business if lack of access to clean water.
H&M Group's ambition is to reduce absolute water consumption and use water in efficient way to minimise environmental negative impact and contribute to preservation of freshwater resources globally.
To achieve this ambition H&M Group focuses on recycling water and improving water efficiency in supply chain and supporting innovative technologies that have potential to significantly reduce need for water in production processes.
H&M Group regularly updates water risk assessments to ensure actions to mitigate water-related risks such as water scarcity are relevant and effective.
H&M Group uses WWF's Water Risk Filter to assess water-related impacts across supply chain setting contextual water targets based on identified risks.
This tool helps understand water scarcity and other relevant risks in key regions.
In addition to using this tool H&M Group collaborates with key business partners sharing water risk assessments and encouraging partners to assess own supply chain risks.
This joint effort enhances water stewardship across value chain fostering collective action to address water challenges.
Together with stakeholders partners and technology providers H&M Group actively engages in driving innovation in water stewardship and invests in and tests new technologies aimed at reducing freshwater consumption.
H&M Group is committed to growing business in way that does not increase water consumption while contributing to sustainable water management and resilience in communities and ecosystems impacted.
H&M Group's work is guided by environmental policy stating acknowledgment of significance of water as limited resource essential for survival.
Policy complemented by water management instruction which outlines requirements for business partners.
For example requirements on installation of water meters in production facilities as well as treatment of wastewater with functional ETPs.
Water management instruction lays foundation of work with tracking water consumption meeting wastewater quality and reporting water related data.
H&M Group's sustainability commitment which applies to all business partners and suppliers includes expectations on water management.
To address water scarcity risks H&M Group has set ambitious context-specific water reduction targets for high-risk basins aligning with commitment to sustainable water management as stated in environmental policy.
H&M Group has set target to reduce absolute freshwater consumption by 30 percent by 2030 against 2022 baseline and milestone target to reduce absolute freshwater consumption by 10 percent by 2025.
H&M Group is focused on improving water efficiency through optimised production processes advancing recycling and reuse of treated wastewater and piloting innovative technologies aimed at reducing water usage.
By setting and pursuing absolute reductions in freshwater consumption H&M Group strives towards broader goal of sustainable water usage enhancing water efficiency while minimising overall negative impacts on people and planet throughout operations.
H&M Group collaborates with tier 1 and 2 suppliers involved in wet processes to implement best practices for water management.
Leveraging scale H&M Group focuses on advancing water recycling and efficiency improvements supporting suppliers to adopt sustainable water practices.
H&M Group's team of local water experts in key sourcing regions including Bangladesh Mainland China India Türkiye and Vietnam provides tailored support to facilities.
By offering region-specific guidance help facilities set realistic context-driven water targets that align with local production needs and address unique regional challenges.
H&M Group assists key suppliers in creating customised water roadmaps that identify actions for improving water efficiency and recycling.
These roadmaps provide step-by-step guidance helping suppliers evaluate and implement optimal water-efficiency opportunities.
In 2024 H&M Group invested in innovative waterless dyeing technology at suppliers Arvind in India and Chorka Textile in Bangladesh.
At Arvind SUPRAUNO technology enables waterless dyeing of textiles cutting down water energy and chemical use.
At Chorka Plan Zero cluster of advanced technologies being deployed to minimise waste and emissions with potential to halve GHG emissions and water use.
In Bangladesh H&M Group in collaboration with Deutsche Gesellschaft für Internationale Zusammenarbeit (GIZ) provided efficiency training to 50 factories.
Experts conducted on-site visits to validate improvements and share best practices fostering culture of continuous improvement in water management.
To reduce freshwater dependency H&M Group and Primark alongside consortium partners implementing water recycling project at Fakir Knitwear Ltd under Sustainable Manufacturing and Environmental Pollution Programme (SMEP).
Set to complete in 2025 initiative will offer key insights into business case for water recycling in high freshwater consumption regions such as Bangladesh.
Although majority of water consumption occurs in supply chain important to make improvements in own operations to reach water reduction targets.
To reduce freshwater consumption in distribution centres H&M Group started harvesting rainwater using rainwater in toilet flushing systems and installing fixtures to reduce freshwater usage.
H&M Group is committed to continually improving data availability and quality to capture progress accurately and transparently towards reducing absolute freshwater consumption.
During year identified opportunities to enhance water reporting methods.
In 2024 transition from facility self-reporting method used in 2022 and 2023 to product-based model for calculating freshwater consumption.
This new calculation method considers product placement and processing steps each product undergoes as basis for calculation.
This information then combined with facility-specific data on freshwater share and water intensity compared with benchmarks set according to material and process type.
With this change can account for freshwater consumption even when facility-specific water performance parameters unavailable.
As before calculation method applied to production processes with intensive water usage such as material dyeing material finishing material all-over printing and product washing.
H&M Group's freshwater consumption decreased by 9.5 percent in 2024 against baseline.
Compared to 2023 freshwater consumption decreased by 0.4 percentage points even as total material weight increased during year.
This positive result primarily outcome of increased recycling of water during year.
Water recycling in supply chain ramped up to 19.6 percent in 2024 compared to 12.2 percent in 2022.
One of main drivers of biodiversity loss are land-use changes.
As global fashion company largest impact on biodiversity and ecosystems occurs in upstream value chain related to use of resources such as land and water for farming production and processing of cotton and wool.
Negative effects of land-use changes on biodiversity can be further intensified by climate change habitat destruction and pollution threatening communities who rely on healthy ecosystems for livelihood.
H&M Group's ambition is to contribute towards global goals for biodiversity by following ARRRT-framework (Avoid Reduce Restore Regenerate and Transform).
To avoid contributing to biodiversity loss and land-use changes H&M Group focusing on building responsive responsible and resilient value chain that operates in harmony with nature and informed by Kunming-Montreal Global Biodiversity Framework.
H&M Group investing in restoration efforts through projects in collaboration with WWF BKB and LEAF-coalition.
In 2023 H&M Group joined Science Based Targets for Nature (SBTN) pilot study alongside 16 other companies which aims to reduce negative impacts and enhance positive outcomes for nature and people across companies.
In first phase of study evaluated key nature impacts across value chain with focus on land and water.
H&M Group considers SBTN pilot study important mean of driving greater standardisation of approaches to identify and assess impacts related to biodiversity and land-use changes.
H&M Group's work guided by environmental policy which states commitment to contributing to reversing nature loss and global goals of biodiversity.
Environmental policy includes commitment to preventing and reducing overall impact on biodiversity and natural ecosystems affected by activities in value chain supporting protection and restoration of biodiversity and natural ecosystems.
H&M Group's sustainability commitment which applies to all business partners and suppliers includes requirements to ensure protection of biodiversity and ecosystems in sourcing of raw materials.
H&M Group exploring possibility to set science-based targets related to nature and biodiversity.
SBTN pilot study helped establish science-based foundation for nature action.
As part of study mapped ongoing actions towards three key land targets no conversion of natural ecosystems land footprint reduction and landscape engagement in prioritised regions.
During 2024 taken action to reduce conversion of natural ecosystems and promote regenerative agriculture practices.
Reducing conversion of ecosystems away from natural state one of key priorities to halt biodiversity loss and protect natural ecosystems.
H&M Group committed to sourcing materials that does not deplete and degrade natural resources or convert natural ecosystems.
Actions related to minimising land conversion include efforts to increase use of sustainably sourced and recycled materials when planning collections.
H&M Group investing in regenerative agriculture practices and production processes to secure availability of input materials needed to produce products in future.
H&M Group supporting transition towards regenerative agriculture practices in supply chain to minimise negative impact on biodiversity loss and create more resilient farming landscape.
Through partnership with WWF H&M Group gained valuable insights into priority conservation landscapes in India South Africa and Indonesia.
These projects included stakeholders holding indigenous and local knowledge and two projects submitted to SBTN as landscape engagement projects.
H&M Group monitoring development of biodiversity credits which companies can use to support long-term nature protection and restoration as potential tool for further investment in thriving ecosystems.
H&M Group relies on large quantities of natural resources and raw materials for production and processing of products and packaging.
Use of resources has negative impact on environment from sourcing of raw materials to disposal of products and packaging.
Increasing resource efficiency and reducing dependence on material resource use and extraction will not only reduce negative impact on people and planet but also improve resilience of business model.
At H&M Group ambition is to grow business decoupled from resource use and extraction with products and materials circulating at highest value.
H&M Group aims to achieve this by shifting towards recycled or sustainably sourced materials optimising production and resource use and scaling circular business models and solutions across value chain.
H&M Group develops and contributes to innovations ventures and projects across value chain often in collaboration with others that believed will accelerate progress and enable circular economy for fashion.
H&M Group focuses efforts on five areas materials business optimisation product and packaging design extending customer use and waste prevention and management.
To identify impacts risks and opportunities related to use of raw materials products and services and generation of waste across value chain H&M Group consults with partners industry networks and other external stakeholders.
For raw materials risk-based approach identifies and assesses impact on people and planet connected or potentially connected to raw material production.
It then determines appropriate measures to prevent or mitigate these impacts based on likelihood and severity.
In 2024 strengthened due diligence procedures in raw material sourcing and partnered with standard owners and other stakeholders on due diligence.
H&M Group applied these learnings to work with other standards and partners.
H&M Group's commitment to reduce dependence on materials and decouple growth from resource use and extraction set out in environmental policy which applies to all entities within H&M Group.
Policy addresses matters related to use of material resources circularity waste prevention and management in own operations and supply chain.
To further guide sustainability work H&M Group aligns with Ellen MacArthur Foundation and its definition of circular economy which includes eliminating waste and pollution circulating products and materials at highest value and regenerating nature.
H&M Group guided by EU Waste Framework Directive and Waste Hierarchy.
H&M Group's sustainability commitment which applies to all business partners includes requirements regarding management of materials circularity and waste.
In accordance with sustainability commitment all business partners agree to be monitored and evaluated on sustainability performance within these areas.
H&M Group works with partners industry networks and other external stakeholders such as Ellen MacArthur Foundation Textile Exchange and Canopy to identify actions and targets related to material use product and packaging design extending customer use and waste prevention and management both in upstream and downstream value chain.
H&M Group set relevant targets where possible and continuing to develop additional targets in parallel.
Material targets set by evaluating risk impact and availability of recycled or sustainably sourced material alternatives and considering sustainability criteria set by external organisations such as Textile Exchange.
Some detailed material targets part of external commitment for example 2025 Recycled Polyester Challenge (Textile Exchange).
Reaching ambition starts with how design products and choose materials to work with when planning collections.
Target is to use 100 percent recycled or sustainably sourced materials in commercial products by 2030 ideally with at least half coming from recycled sources.
Products need to be protected when travelling between suppliers distribution centres stores and customers.
H&M Group set targets to reduce plastic packaging volume by 25 percent by 2025 against 2018 baseline and use 100 percent recycled or sustainably sourced packaging materials by 2030.
To reach these targets use materials for products and packaging that recycled or sustainably sourced.
H&M Group invests in innovative materials and processes such as dyeing printing and finishing and recycling infrastructure.
H&M Group supports scaling regenerative agricultural practices and enhances technology to improve impact data and material traceability.
H&M Group collaborates with suppliers and wider fashion industry to promote production and sourcing of recycled and sustainably sourced materials.
To increase availability of recycled or sustainably sourced materials and make them more affordable H&M Group supports development testing and scaling of alternative materials and recycling infrastructure at various stages.
H&M Group collaborates with industry partners to drive wider adoption.
In 2024 H&M Group spent SEK 1.7 billion on decarbonisation activities across value chain for example replacing conventional materials with recycled or sustainably sourced materials which stand for bigger part of spend as well as phasing out fossil fuels and supporting energy efficiency initiatives.
Together with Vargas Holding H&M Group launched Syre venture to scale textile-to-textile recycled polyester.
H&M Group invested in Galy sustainable agriculture startup that aims to make lab-grown cotton reality.
Company has developed minimum-viable product and working to enhance product's quality parameters and scale up production.
H&M Group contributes to projects to fill industry gaps in current GHG emission factors and other crucial impact data for key fibres and raw materials.
For cotton largest fibre by volume H&M Group supports life cycle assessment (LCA) baseline study with Textile Exchange and other brands as well as OCA LCA study on environmental impacts of OCA's cotton cultivation in India.
H&M Group piloting Better Cotton traceability in 2024 together with suppliers to secure learnings for future scale up.
H&M Group increased volume of traceable material using Textile Genesis platform for man-made cellulosic fibres and polyester.
Resource efficiency and optimisation starts with how plan design and develop products and packaging.
This closely linked to how plan assortments and engage with customers.
H&M Group uses customer insights AI and digital product creation to better align production with demand and optimise distribution of products across stores distribution centres and sales markets.
This shortens lead times optimises size availability and achieves higher sell-through and stock turnover.
H&M Group takes action to reduce use of materials increase resource efficiency and scale circular solutions starting with how design products.
Lack of industry definitions and standards significant challenge in scale-up of circular design practices for commercial products.
H&M Group remains committed to design products and packaging fit for circular economy.
H&M Group intends to set design targets for commercial products once relevant legislation becomes clear.
For packaging brands made significant progress towards target to design all plastic packaging for reuse and recycling by 2025.
In meantime for commercial goods continue to increase share of products and collections designed according to circular design principles and expected incoming requirements on durability and recycled content.
H&M Group analyses and improves physical durability parameters based on potential eco-design requirements to increase physical performance and extend lifecycle of textile products.
H&M Group works with brands and experts such as Circular Design Consortium and Ellen MacArthur Foundation to explore circular design strategies scale circular product design share insights and tackle shared challenges.
As voting-member of PEFCR Apparel & Footwear technical secretariat H&M Group helps shape harmonised EU methodology to communicate product-level impact and use framework to enhance transparency.
H&M Group uses broad range of materials to produce goods such as cotton polyester and man-made cellulosic fibres.
Cotton represents largest share of materials basket followed by polyester and man-made cellulosic fibres.
H&M Group prioritises finding alternatives for materials with largest negative impact on environment such as cotton polyester wood-based and animal-derived materials and wool.
H&M Group continues scaling customer-facing circular business models to reach ambition.
By giving customers access to services and guidance that helps extend use of products contribute to new more resource-efficient revenue streams reduce waste and maximise value of materials used.
Today offer range of resell repair and rental services across group and increased access to resell services across brands in 2024.
Sellpy online platform for customers to sell and buy used products and clothes continued to expand.
In 2024 sales from resell increased representing 0.6 percent of H&M Group's total turnover.
H&M Group joined Ellen MacArthur Foundation's Re-model Initiative project involving leading brands that aims to identify solutions and remove barriers to scale customer-facing circular business models.
Waste significant global issue which requires systemic solutions.
Scaling systems which enables recirculation of materials and infrastructure to better manage resource outflows critical to decreasing dependence on extraction of raw materials and reducing environmental footprint.
Guided by Ellen MacArthur Foundation's circular economy principles and EU Waste Hierarchy aim to circulate products and materials at highest value and ultimately for zero waste to end up in landfills.
This means preventing and reducing waste and increasing share of waste effectively handled and reintroduced into supply chains for reuse and recycling in line with environmental policy.
To mitigate negative impacts on environment waste management strategy focuses primarily on three waste streams in own operations and supply chain identified as having largest negative impacts and risk.
These are product waste and packaging waste in own operations textile cutting waste in supply chain and textiles collected from customers through garment collecting programme.
To manage waste effectively track data from collection sorting and waste management partners.
H&M Group strengthened governance structures for priority waste streams ensuring robust reporting in line with upcoming legislation.
All partners receive training to report accurately and provide accurate control documents.
To increase operational efficiency and visibility connected to product waste and garment collecting programme in Europe partnered with Looper Textile Co.
To increase recycling of textile cutting waste build networks of recyclers and provide guidelines to suppliers to optimise and recirculate post-industrial pre-consumer textile waste.
Prevent and reduce waste by designing for durability and recyclability through business optimisation and by extending material and product use.
Continue to increase share of packaging made of paper and cardboard replacing packaging made of plastic materials.
This improves recyclability of packaging materials and helps increase share of packaging waste going to recycling.
H&M Group continued to increase share of recycled and sustainably sourced materials.
In 2024 89 percent of materials used for commercial products recycled or sustainably sourced well on track towards 2030 goal.
For packaging most materials used paper and cardboard.
Continued to increase shares of recycled or sustainably sourced materials and plastic packaging designed for reuse and recycling.
In 2024 29.5 percent of materials used in commercial products came from recycled sources almost reaching 30 percent target year early.
This success mainly due to increase in share of recycled polyester.
In 2024 94 percent of all polyester used recycled showing significant progress towards 2025 target of using 100 percent recycled materials.
For packaging increased share of recycled materials to 52 percent.
This increase mainly driven by continued priority to use recycled plastic.
For sustainably sourced materials continued to increase share of wool certified to Responsible Wool Standard (RWS) as well as share of sustainably sourced man-made cellulosic fibres and FSC certified wood and wood-based materials for both commercial products and packaging.
Increase in total material weight for commercial products during 2024 effect of change in assortment mix and customer offer.
Reduced volume of packaging from previous year mainly by streamlining retail and transport packaging.
Plastic packaging decreased by 54 percent compared with 2018 surpassing 25 percent reduction target for 2025 ahead of schedule.
Slight increase in plastic use compared with 2023 driven by increased share of online shipments in 2024.
H&M Group continue to increase resell in both markets and stores.
Resell now offered in 26 markets and in 38 stores available through Sellpy H&M ARKET COS and Weekday (including Monki).
In 2024 0.6 percent of turnover came from resell.
Although represents small share of total business believe on par with or above industry average for companies offering resell alongside conventional assortments.
This share doubled since 2022 and aim to increase resell across H&M Group.
For product waste changed to new KPIs during 2024 to align with reporting requirements meaning no comparability with data from previous years.
Increased share of packaging waste handled in distribution centres going to reuse or recycling.
Accurate waste data crucial for effective waste management.
During 2024 further worked to improve data collection process with partners enhancing data accuracy and granularity.
In 2023 changed partners for garment collecting which enabled further improvement in data granularity and accuracy affecting comparability with 2022 and 2023 data.
Despite challenges with data comparability believe reported increase in disposal mainly due to improved data accuracy and improved processes to collect track and follow up data.
Continue improving systems and operations to handle waste more efficiently.
In 2024 as in past years H&M Group performed inventory of economic activities according to Article 8 of EU Taxonomy Regulation.
In particular H&M Group's activities to mitigate climate change and towards circular economy analysed for eligibility and alignment based on Turnover CapEx and OpEx.
H&M Group considers following economic activities eligible according to EU Taxonomy regulation in 2024.
Circular Economy (CE) 5.4 Sale of second-hand goods.
Turnover of Sellpy which digital platform for second-hand fashion and other second-hand items consists of sale of second-hand goods.
As result its turnover falls under economic activity 5.4.
Description of economic activity 5.4 under circular economy delegated act states that only second-hand goods used for intended purpose by customers shall be included.
Therefore only products considered second-hand and supplied by customers considered and included in taxonomy report.
Climate Change Mitigation (CCM) 7.3 Installation maintenance and repair of energy efficient equipment.
H&M Group undertaking various energy efficiency projects many immaterial or financial support rather than investment nature.
H&M Group continued to invest in changing all store lights to energy-efficient LED sources in all H&M Group stores.
This project falls under EU Taxonomy economic activity 7.3 installation maintenance and repair of energy efficient equipment under climate change mitigation delegated act and therefore included in taxonomy reporting.
Since 2020 undertaken significant initiative to transition to LED lighting in all stores.
Climate Change Mitigation (CCM) 7.7 Acquisition and ownership of buildings.
H&M Group owns limited number of buildings and no new buildings acquired during 2024.
Any eligible activities related to new and acquired buildings deemed immaterial.
H&M Group has extensive amount of right of use assets as all H&M Group's store locations leased.
All H&M Group's new or renegotiated right of use assets fall under EU Taxonomy economic activity 7.7 acquisition and ownership of building under climate change mitigation delegated act and therefore included in taxonomy reporting.
Based on analysis carried out H&M Group assessed economic activities CE 5.4 and CCM 7.3 to be aligned.
Economic activity consists of selling second-hand product used for intended purpose by customer.
Packaging used by Sellpy meets requirement of at least 65 percent recycled material.
Waste management plan not required since product not repaired refurbished or remanufactured before reselling.
In line with criteria direct GHG emissions coming from on-site generation of heat/cool or co-generation including power (i.e. from warehouses that handle Sellpy's operations) lower than 270 gCO₂e/kWh.
As part of efforts to reduce emissions H&M Group climate strategy covers scope 1 and 2 of Sellpy's emissions.
There no relevant use of water and chemicals in processes owned by Sellpy.
There no relevant use of chemicals in processes owned by Sellpy.
Economic activity related to transition to energy efficient LED sources aligns with installation and replacement of energy-efficient light sources and complies with minimum requirements set for individual components and systems in applicable national measures implementing Directive 2010/31/EU and rated in highest two populated classes of energy efficiency in accordance with Regulation (EU) 2017/1369 and delegated acts adopted under that regulation.
Energy-efficient light sources and materials used in project to transition to LED lighting conform to requirements in Appendix C ‘Generic criteria for DNSH to pollution prevention and control regarding use and presence of chemicals’.
LED luminaires contain no mercury which not only eliminates risk of environmental damage during waste disposal but also minimises potential risks for those who handle lighting products.
For any economic activity to be considered aligned must be carried out in accordance with OECD Guidelines for Multinational Enterprises and UN Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights.
In 2023 H&M Group conducted requirement mapping that resulted in alignment with minimum safeguards.
In 2024 H&M Group ensured each requirement fulfilled.
H&M Group applies robust due diligence to operations and business decisions making possible to identify prevent mitigate and remedy where necessary any impact on economy environment and people (including any impact on human rights).
H&M Group as global fashion company engages millions of people across value chain and committed to respecting human rights of all people impacted through business activities.
H&M Group believes all people deserve to be treated equally with respect and dignity.
By proactively working on addressing and minimising potential adverse human rights impacts H&M Group avoids infringing on rights of people engaged through operations and business activities.
At H&M Group respecting human rights also about leading with values and empowering people to be who they want to be.
H&M Group provides basic and specific human rights trainings tailoring content to different functions roles and business partners.
In order to fulfill commitment to respecting human rights across value chain H&M Group established human rights due diligence process to continuously identify prevent mitigate track and account for actual and potential adverse impacts on human rights arising in own operations supply chain and from other business relationships.
Salient human rights risks those human rights at risk of most severe or likely actual or potential adverse impacts on people across value chain.
It recognised may need to prioritise due diligence efforts based on identified salient issues.
This does not intend to disregard other issues that may occur but helps focus on most important issues first.
Identifying human rights risks associated with business activities first critical step in preventing and mitigating harm to people.
H&M Group identified and assessed actual and potential adverse human rights impacts arising from global operations and value chain as part of ongoing human rights due diligence process.
Identification process based on qualitative and quantitative information such as independent reports and information gathered from internal procedures and documentation.
H&M Group carried out consultations with potentially affected groups including workers and other relevant stakeholders to gather information on actual or potential adverse human rights impacts.
To help focus on most important issues first H&M Group carried out salience assessment to prioritise human rights impacts.
H&M Group engaged internal and external stakeholders to identify salient human rights issues and performs annual review to assess continued significance.
External dynamics and internal business development continuously change company's risk exposure over time.
For H&M Group internal shifts include transition towards more digital and circular business model.
In line with transformation place increased focus on safeguarding right to privacy through efforts in data privacy personal data management and secure storage robust data security practices and ensuring ethical use of Artificial Intelligence (AI) and data-driven digital technology.
From external perspective trend of political instability could lead to challenges to uphold human rights calling for special consideration in due diligence.
In addition to annual review different functions markets and geographies carry out human rights risk and impact assessments outcomes of which inform review of salient human rights issues and due diligence process.
Selected production markets established heat maps of human rights-related issues based on severity and likelihood to indicate where extra attention needed.
This informs market strategies and goal-setting process.
Business functions include Retail (Construction and Facility Management) and Logistics (Warehouses and Transport) which assess sustainability risks including risks to human rights on regular basis through assessments at partner facilities to inform existence and adequacy of prevention and mitigation plans.
Risk analysis done for new materials and on regular basis for highest volume materials.
As extraction and production of raw materials takes place several steps back in supply chain main strategies to preventing and mitigating risks focused on engagement in certification schemes standards and various industry collaborations.
To make sure focus efforts on most important issues first review salient human rights issues on yearly basis and whenever changes in operations occur to ensure issues remain relevant and aligned with priorities.
In yearly review of salient human rights issues in 2024 gained increased granular view across geographies and different parts of value chain through internal assessments which informed impact materiality.
Based on this will work towards enhanced integration of human rights management across operations and business relationships through adequate steering and governance.
Everyone working at business partner's entity including subsidiaries subcontractors or any other relevant stakeholder welcome to raise concerns anonymously through whistleblowing platform speak up.
H&M Group does not tolerate retaliation for reporting suspected misconduct in good faith.
This explicitly written in Speak Up guideline which also includes how to conduct potential anti-retaliation checks.
In H&M Group's sustainability commitment all business partners commit to providing grievance mechanism for employees which allows them to raise concerns without risk of retaliation.
H&M Group expects them to manage grievances related to human rights labour rights and environmental impact and engage in appropriate remediation of any harm to people or environment caused contributed to or directly linked in close dialogue with those affected.
For direct suppliers in production track existence of grievance mechanisms through facility social labour module (FSLM) factory performance data and Industrial Relations impact according to UNGP framework and worker survey.
This annual assessment considers FSLM performance data management survey and workers' voice survey.
Purpose evaluate effectiveness of grievance mechanisms in line with UNGP framework on effective grievance mechanisms.
All these including case logs logged into platform called STEP (sustainable tracking & evaluation platform) to track issues raised and monitor if resolved.
These results complemented by other sources as aware workers may have been coached when responding to surveys.
Through Global Framework Agreement with IndustriALL Global Union and IF Metall established National Monitoring Committees (NMC) in Bangladesh Cambodia India Indonesia and Türkiye.
These consist of IndustriALL Global Union affiliated unions and own colleagues from production offices and serve as additional grievance mechanisms where workers can raise concerns directly with us and where conflicts not solved at factory level can be elevated.
In Bangladesh RMG Sustainability Council (RSC) established hotline for workers to raise health and safety complaints.
Expect supplier factories in Myanmar to have digital workers' voice tool or grievance mechanism in place where can access dashboard to see grievances raised.
Initiated pilot in China where selected supplier factories producing for COS established digital grievance mechanism where workers can raise complaints.
H&M Group has clearly outlined process for handling confirmed cases of violations and enabling remedy.
When identified or alleged suspicion or grievance that people have been negatively impacted due to actions by us or business partners have responsibility to investigate and engage in remediation process.
If conclude caused or contributed to harm caused must engage in enabling remedy to those impacted.
Where linked may choose to engage with peers and local and international stakeholders.
In general use leverage to extent possible and reasonable to influence others to take responsibility.
In addition guided by set of principles to remedy any negative impact.
Safeguarding of people who victims of rights violations should be first consideration in any remediation process.
Extra care taken for vulnerable groups such as children youth women or marginalised groups and when tackling sensitive topics such as GBVH abuse or forced labour.
Strive to have most positive impact possible within appropriate level of responsibility and always make best possible effort to do so.
Trade unions and/or worker representatives' structures should have official and well-understood role and responsibilities in prevention and remediation of all issues.
Must make decisions and take actions based on well-documented facts and evidence.
Must remain unbiased when approaching case.
Set targets for each material impact areas including freedom of association (FOA) and collective bargaining health safety and wellbeing discrimination child labour and forced labour compensation and benefits.
These targets communicated to all functions in organisation to be acted on.
H&M Group aims to have no fatalities and no accidents in value chain.
To achieve this assess working conditions in supplier factories using own and third-party assessments and monitor data from supplier factories.
Monitor share of tier 1 and tier 2 factories that have health and safety committees.
Raise awareness on topic internally by continuously training colleagues in production offices.
When health and safety violations occur work with suppliers and where possible affected stakeholders to ensure all rights respected and corrective action plans implemented correctly.
Work with ILO's Better Work on country programmes in Bangladesh Cambodia (Better Factories Cambodia) Indonesia Pakistan and Vietnam.
These programmes include assessments training advocacy and research to change policies attitudes and behaviour.
Actions include development of new guideline for occupational health and safety reviewed by Better Work ILO IndustriALL Global Union and IF Metall to support business partners in maintaining health and safety standards.
Conducted training for National Monitoring Committees (NMC) and H&M Group's production office and logistics staff in Türkiye Indonesia India Bangladesh Cambodia China and Vietnam.
Continue commitment with International ACCORD as well as Readymade Sustainability Council (RSC) in Bangladesh.
H&M Group wants workers to feel safe at work and be treated with respect and dignity and that rights to freedom of association and collective bargaining respected.
In 2024 had in-person global NMC meeting for first time since 2019.
Coming together in person essential to build trust and increase knowledge of each other's respective organisations.
Renewed Global Framework Agreement (GFA) with IndustriALL Global Union and IF Metall.
Key updates include commitment to supply chain due diligence updated governance structure and shared budget to strengthen industrial relations as well as commitment from H&M Group to facilitate trade union access to factories in cases of alleged violations.
Long-term improvements in working conditions and safeguarding human rights in factories start with empowered workers who have voice.
Expect supplier factories to strengthen dialogue between management and worker representatives including trade union representatives when trade union present.
Major pillar to achieve above Global Framework Agreement with IndustriALL Global Union and IF Metall (GFA).
GFA implemented through NMCs in Bangladesh Cambodia India Indonesia and Türkiye.
These consist of IndustriALL Global Union affiliated unions and own colleagues from production offices and serve as additional grievance mechanism where workers can raise concerns directly with us and conflicts not solved at factory level.
National Monitoring Committees also work proactively to promote freedom of association and issues of joint concern.
H&M Group does not accept any form of child labour in supply chain.
This clearly stated in sustainability commitment.
To underline importance of requirement have specific child labour case handling guidelines stating standards and remedial action if use of child labour discovered.
In tier 1 and tier 2 supplier factories manage risk of child labour by monitoring working conditions through own and third-party assessments and improving grievance mechanisms.
During minimum requirement assessments factory tour and worker interviews conducted to detect potential child labour.
In addition see that strategy to increase wages in tier 1 factories can have indirect preventive effects on child labour as higher wages in family reducing need for children to work.
Recognise risk exists in industry with higher risks in raw material supply chain.
Continuously strengthen due diligence in raw material sourcing.
Participating in multi-stakeholder collaborative project 'Harvesting the Future – Cotton in India' to improve working and living conditions of cotton farmers and workers in two districts in Madhya Pradesh.
H&M Group does not accept any form of forced labour in supply chain.
This clearly stated in sustainability commitment.
In tier 1 and tier 2 supplier factories manage risk of forced labour by monitoring working conditions through own and third-party assessments and improving grievance mechanisms.
Specifically minimum requirements look at recruitment policies and processes and require document check.
As stated in H&M Group's migrant workers fair recruitment and treatment guidelines set goal towards 'No worker pays for their work or right to work' by 2025.
To achieve goal constantly investigating any recruitment fees paid by workers at factories and developing improvement plans to remediate any cases identified.
H&M Group wants workers to receive wages earned during normal working hours that meet basic needs and discretionary income for workers and families.
However in many markets including ones source from legal minimum wage not sufficient to ensure decent standard of living.
Key components of wage strategy in production supply chain programmes to facilitate functional wage-management systems in suppliers' factories strengthening factory-level industrial relations and following responsible purchasing practices.
Address and advocate for structural improvements in systemic issues including wage-setting mechanisms such as collective bargaining and statutory minimum wage at country level as well as improved social protection systems.
Support efficiency improvements at factories setting efficiency roadmap together with suppliers where reward with volume allocation both seasonally and in long-term based on targets.
Continued enrolment and support of implementation of wage management system factory programmes together with suppliers and factory management.
Signed binding agreement with global union IndustriALL Global Union to support collectively bargained wages and improved working conditions in garment textile footwear and travel goods industry in Cambodia.
During year actively engaged with Cambodian stakeholders including industry employers' association TAFTAC and trade unions as well as ACT brands and IndustriALL Global Union to support CBA process.
Agreement to facilitate CBA process establishes framework with commitments to signatory manufacturers related to purchase volume labour costing and efficiency and financial contribution to joint skills training fund.
Finalised collective bargaining agreement guarantees workers increased base wage fixed duration contracts of minimum of six months additional 10 maternity leave days and introduces paternity leave with full pay for first time in Cambodia.
Monitor access to social protection in suppliers' factories.
Where necessary work with business partners to strengthen workers' awareness about rights to social insurance and benefits related to retirement medical treatment maternity and unemployment.
Continued financial contribution to and efforts to further develop Employment Injury Scheme (EIS) Pilot in Bangladesh.
This initiative launched together with other brands in 2022 under lead of ILO and Deutsche Gesellschaft für Internationale Zusammenarbeit (GIZ) and covers roughly 4 million workers in export-oriented RMG sector in Bangladesh.
In case of work-related injuries provides compensation payments for affected.
Monthly pensions financed by voluntary contributions from international brands.
Within own operations focus on purchasing practices which enable suppliers to pay for cost of labour.
Further strengthened responsible purchasing practices and monitoring routines integrating standard procedures with business teams in production.
Measures and accompanying indicators connect to each purchasing practices commitments and selected based on supplier priorities identified risks and reflect ambition for constant improvement with consideration to supply chain maturity and scopes.
H&M Group wants all women to be empowered healthy and safe in everyday working life.
H&M Group wants women to have equal participation voice and leadership in social dialogue including all worker representation forums.
H&M Group wants number of women in leadership positions to reflect proportion of women on staff.
H&M Group wants men and women to receive equal remuneration for work of equal value.
Worked with women leadership programmes to prepare women in supply chain tier 1 factories in several countries including Bangladesh India and Türkiye.
Through these programmes women empowered through training on gender equality gender-based violence and harassment (GBVH) leadership skills and technical skills and given fair opportunity to be evaluated in internal recruitment process whenever vacancy for supervisory position.
In 2023 introduced GBVH guideline to suppliers which provides practical information on how to prevent identify and remedy any case of GBVH in world of work.
While developing guideline taken C190 and R206 as basis and worked with IndustriALL Global Union and experts on topic.
Together with NMCs and selected suppliers conducting joint gap analysis of existing systems to prevent and ensure remedy to GBVH.
Gender based violence and harassment sensitive topic and take risk of it very seriously.
To identify and handle potential cases in best way and guide suppliers towards correct preventive and remedial actions teams need enough knowledge and competence on topic.
Provided refresher training on GBVH for sustainability teams.
Suppliers provided training on GBVH to workers and supervisors.
472664 female and male workers and supervisors trained during year.
Together with UN Women India founding members of Textile Industry Coalition (TiC).
Multi-stakeholder initiative brings together various actors such as brands manufacturers government agencies service providers industry associations trade unions civil society organisations and research institutions to work towards common goal of creating safe and empowering work environment for women in textile industry by promoting zero tolerance for sexual harassment and violence in women-dominated textile sector of Tamil Nadu India.
H&M Group continued to see increase in gross average wages for workers in production supply chain with relative improvement of difference to minimum wages 2024 compared with 2023 in most major production markets.
In Bangladesh difference still stood at 39 percent despite statutory minimum wage increase of 47 percent in late 2023.
Difference expected to continue to grow in coming years.
Mainland China suppliers experienced decrease in demand coupled with global economic downturn resulting in reduction of total working hours.
At same time government implemented policies to raise minimum wage to ensure living wage for low-income workers as well as keep pace with inflation.
In India government revised national minimum wage in 2024 with 4–7 percent increase in minimum wages across states.
Myanmar saw major rise of average gross wage from 2023 to 2024 with significant increase in difference between average and minimum wages.
Many suppliers in Myanmar raised wages by 20-30 percent to mitigate current situation in addition to two government-announced wage increases of MMK 1000/day during year.
In 2024 continued working with women leadership programmes.
Although factories worked to develop succession pools and made efforts to increase women workers' skills to enable advancement seen that progress takes time as needs to be vacancies which might be rare and many reasons holding women back from wanting to become supervisors.
Moving forward will focus more on foundations that will enable increase in female leadership.
As global fashion company H&M Group has impact on local communities throughout value chain where people and communities may be negatively affected by sourcing and processing of materials and production of finished goods as well as disposal of products and materials.
Use of land and natural resources during production and disposal of clothes and textiles could potentially harm natural ecosystems and impact communities' access to clean healthy and toxic free environment.
At H&M Group believe responsibility to conduct business in way that respects rights of people living in communities affected by operations or business activities across value chain.
H&M Group aims to build responsive and responsible value chain where all people in affected communities have voice and possibility to raise concerns.
Ambition for every rights holder especially vulnerable groups such as children and indigenous people to feel assured heard and rights respected.
To achieve ambition identify and drive initiatives that focus on preventing and mitigating potential negative impacts on people in affected communities and surrounding environment.
In order to identify salient human rights issues related to people in affected communities carried out human rights assessment throughout entire value chain.
Operations in certain parts of value chain can have potential negative impacts on quality of water and air as well as on land and livelihoods of people.
Identifying potential human rights violations associated with business activities first critical step in preventing and mitigating potential harm to people.
H&M Group identified and assessed actual and potential adverse human rights impacts arising from global operations and value chain as part of ongoing human rights due diligence process.
H&M Group's commitment to respect human rights of people living in affected communities set out in human rights policy which applies to all entities within H&M Group and business partners.
H&M Group complies with national laws and respects internationally recognised human rights wherever operate.
H&M Group's sustainability commitment which applies to all business partners outlines no infringement on land rights or on civil and political rights of marginalised populations.
Operations and use of natural resources shall not contribute to destruction or degradation of resources and income base for communities including marginalised populations such as claiming large land areas irresponsible use of water or other natural resources on which these communities depend.
Wherever possible relevant stakeholders including people living in affected communities welcome to raise concerns anonymously through Whistleblowing Mechanism.
When identified or alleged suspicion or grievance that people have been negatively impacted due to actions by us or business partners responsibility to investigate and engage in remediation process.
If conclude caused or contributed to harm caused must engage in enabling remedy to those impacted.
Where linked may choose to engage and in general use leverage to extent possible and reasonable to influence others to take responsibility.
H&M Group jointly develop feedback and communication tools to have best possible overview of potential impacts as well as needs and concerns of people living in affected communities.
Currently looking into strengthening current approach by setting quantitative targets for affected communities and actively seeking contacts and partnerships with organisations or other proxies that can more directly and effectively represent affected communities to set such targets.
H&M Group taken action to secure safety and wellbeing of people living in affected communities and access to clean air water and healthy environment.
Recognise potential negative impact on quality of air and water not only related to activities in business partners' factories but also in surrounding communities where operate.
Therefore work within this area supported by water and chemicals strategy as well as climate and materials strategy.
Wastewater discharge from factories in supply chain one of material matters related to chemicals and water pollution that also have impact on people living in affected communities.
Require all tier 1 and 2 suppliers to comply with national legislation and ZDHC standards for wastewater treatment and discharge water quality.
Require all supplier units with wet processes to have functional Effluent Treatment Plant (ETP) in place.
Although relevant suppliers made progress in improving wastewater quality recognise need for systemic change beyond individual factories.
Committed to water stewardship work with WWF to progress towards improving water quality at basin level.
To prevent and mitigate material negative impacts on communities related to access to water taken action to engage with affected stakeholders although actions not linked to specific targets.
Performed roundtable discussions to engage with affected communities and proxies such as Save the Children Water Aid and Bangladesh Rural Advancement Committee (BRAC) to discuss best possible approach to capture needs and concerns of affected communities in Bangladesh.
Continue to screen which organisation best qualified to develop method for capturing needs and concerns of people living in communities affect and depend upon.
Once finalised believe method can also applied to other production markets and communities.
Plan identify mitigation actions together with partners to gain deeper understanding of how manage these issues in efficient manner.
H&M Group taken action to ensure rights of people living in affected communities respected across value chain.
Efforts related to land-rights and livelihoods of people living in affected communities focused on increasing use of recycled and sustainably sourced materials and maximising value of material resources and products by keeping them in use longer.
These efforts supported by materials strategy.
Using leverage as global fashion company to strengthen respect for human rights across value chain through industry collaborations and partnerships such as Better Cotton Initiative.
Continued success of business depends on ability to understand and meet customers' needs and expectations.
Business activities could potentially impact customers or users of products negatively if products not designed with health and safety of people in mind or if marketing practices not consider needs of many.
Every decision made driven by desire to create best offering and experience for customers and with fundamental respect for all people and rights.
H&M Group has established culture of innovation and entrepreneurship and tireless focus on customers and ability to scale great ideas to benefit of millions of people.
Aim to offer qualitative products and liberating fashion for many.
For everyone but everyone unique.
Brands offer broad range of styles for different personalities preferences body types ages gender identities occasions and cultures.
With great size comes great responsibility and believe protecting customers' rights and safety important part of sustainability work.
H&M Group dedicated to addressing any material negative impacts on consumers and end-users promptly and effectively.
To identify salient human rights issues related to customers and users of products carried out human rights assessment.
Regularly incorporate feedback from customers to inform decisions and activities.
This engagement occurs through various channels including customer service interactions.
Insights gathered from interactions help tailor privacy practices to better meet needs and expectations of customers and users of products.
Welcome individuals to reach out with concerns or feedback.
Provide easily accessible contact information for data protection officer (DPO) on websites as well as to dedicated customer service team responsible for managing data subject rights.
All processes involving customers personal data designed with privacy perspective in mind.
Approach involves continuous monitoring and assessment of operations and procedures to identify potential negative impacts on customers and users of products.
When significant issue arises act quickly to mitigate harm implementing remediation plans that address root causes and prevent recurrence.
Regularly review and refine policies to improve ability to prevent and address any negative impacts effectively.
When material impact occurs take action to provide or enable remedy such as informing affected customers promptly about breach and implementing corrective measures to prevent future occurrences.
Necessary actions identified through risk management processes performed by legal compliance team and data protection officer.
Work guided by product safety guidelines data privacy policy and human rights policy which applies to all entities within H&M Group and business partners and RBC policy which outlines sustainability due diligence process.
Established comprehensive procedures to guide colleagues in managing personal data responsibly.
These procedures outline key elements of data privacy policy and provide step-by-step instructions that translate legal and regulatory requirements into actionable guidance for daily operations.
To further support data privacy understanding across organisation offer variety of training sessions tailored to enhance colleagues' data protection knowledge.
All office-based employees required to complete annual e-learning module on data privacy.
This training equips participants with essential skills to recognise and properly handle personal data helping foster culture of privacy awareness and ensuring adherence to data protection standards at every level of organisation.
To deliver on business idea and liberate fashion for many taken action related to marketing and safety of products as well as data privacy of customers.
Not yet set targets for consumers and end-users.
Brands create campaigns and communication assets that inspire wide and diverse target group across markets.
Marketing by brands has major impact on consumers therefore plan and produce marketing assets consciously and responsibly.
This responsibility entails securing diverse representation of people in casting and promoting positive and healthy lifestyle.
When making products for children safety paramount.
Core focus for all roles working with children's products and vital in all stages of product development from initial idea creation to production floor.
Child safety experts set guidelines to educate employees on latest safety requirements and trends.
Base child safety work on legal requirements and knowledge about how children behave as well as customer feedback received.
All cases concerning product safety incidents carefully investigated and contribute to continuous product development.
Perform thorough risk assessments to identify potential negative impacts including developing appropriate mitigation strategies.
Continuously monitor key indicators linked to product safety such as number of orders stopped before sales or product recalls due to health and safety issues or child safety issues.
Dedicated team of data privacy professionals assesses all personal data processes to ensure individuals' right to privacy always considered.
Approach focuses on proactive measures to prevent mitigate and remediate potential negative impacts while fostering culture of data protection awareness across organisation.
Implemented robust actions to safeguard customers rights including information security measures such as data encryption technology and regular data privacy reviews to identify and address potential vulnerabilities.
Provide ongoing training for employees on data privacy best practices and compliance requirements.
All concerns and complaints logged in centralised database assigned unique identifier and tracked through to resolution.
Regular reviews conducted to ensure timely issue management.
Actions set to achieve privacy targets strengthening commitment to accountability and continuously improving privacy safeguards.
Handle personal data of customers to provide best customer experience when visiting websites or stores.
Process personal data on customer requests to deliver services fulfil orders or provide support through customer service.
Had six substantiated complaints concerning breaches of customer privacy during 2024.
All cases except one closed with no further action required by supervising authorities.
Remaining open case being managed appropriately in coordination with relevant supervising authority.
H&M Group operates across multiple markets globally each with different laws and regulations.
Recognise how and where operate has impact on many stakeholders as well as business long-term success.
In many markets where operate unethical business practices and behaviours poses risk to business.
Good procurement practices and close cooperation with business partners essential to ensure deliver on business idea and mitigate potential negative impacts on people or planet.
At H&M Group utmost importance to always act ethically transparently and responsibly across all parts of business from collaborating with suppliers to engaging with customers.
Ambition to establish corporate culture that promotes ethical and responsible business conduct.
H&M Group's risk management and internal control processes assure compliant with relevant legislation and have control over risk exposure.
Executive management team each brand and every relevant group function reviews business conduct risks on quarterly basis.
Board of directors and audit committee receive regular feedback from organisation concerning these processes.
Responsibility for H&M Group's corporate culture and business conduct stated in corporate governance report.
Undertake risk assessment as part of due diligence process for new suppliers based on risk level by country industry type of business and delivery.
Set short- and long-term goals to help mitigate identified risks and prioritisation risk-based.
H&M Group continues to explore use of third-party risk management tools that could automate business conduct risk identification process and due diligence process for business partners and other third parties.
Fundamental respect for individual and human rights sits at heart of business and culture.
This applies to everyone along value chain and includes aspects such as fair wages and working hours safe workplace freedom of association and opportunity to develop and grow.
Minimum employment standards and social policies applied across operations and supply chain to support good working conditions in safe and healthy environments for all.
As global company represent rich variety of different cultures and backgrounds.
This one of key business strengths as brings wealth of diverse knowledge experience and perspectives that enable creativity and innovation.
Actively work to cultivate inclusive corporate culture where everyone encouraged to be themselves and respect others for who they are.
'Our way' summarises values policies and guidelines and how shape way H&M Group operates to ensure business carried out in ethical responsible sustainable and transparent way.
'Our way' applies to all employees within all brands and functions of H&M Group as well as external stakeholders.
At H&M Group commitment to conduct business with high standard of honesty integrity transparency and fair play.
Code of ethics details company's expectations on employees and business partners.
All business carried out with or on behalf of H&M Group always conducted in accordance with code of ethics applicable laws and regulations in country of business.
Code of ethics includes details about zero-tolerance policy on bribery and corruption which applies to all business dealings in all countries operate.
Mandatory all business partners and employees comply with code of ethics.
See education and building awareness as crucial tools to act ethically and in compliance with applicable policies laws and regulations.
At H&M Group take any allegation of misconduct in business seriously.
Misconduct can include discrimination harassment theft fraud corruption other violations of policies and guidelines regarding ethical behaviour or violation of laws.
All reports investigated and appropriate actions taken against proven misconduct.
People should feel safe and supported when raise concern and make every effort to keep identity strictly confidential.
Reports may made anonymously except in countries where not comply with local laws and do not tolerate retaliation against anyone who raises concern in good faith.
H&M group subject to legal requirements for whistleblowing.
Any concerns or potential violations of H&M Group's policies or relevant laws can reported through externally available speak up channel which whistleblowing mechanism.
Speak up channel available to employees business partners and their employees as well as third parties.
All suppliers must sign sustainability commitment and code of ethics for business partners which set out expectations for relationship including every employee always treated with dignity and respect.
Expect business partners to establish own misconduct reporting process where employees can report complaints and concerns without fear of retaliation.
However if business partner employee cannot raise concern within own organisation or sees no action on concern that affects H&M group may use speak up channel.
This in line with OECD Due Diligence Guidance for Responsible Business Conduct and local legislation where operate.
H&M Group has implemented data privacy policy to ensure compliance with applicable legislation and uphold highest standards of data security.
Established comprehensive procedures to guide colleagues in managing personal data responsibly.
These procedures outline key elements of data privacy policy and provide step-by-step instructions that translate legal and regulatory requirements into actionable guidance for daily operations.
To further support understanding of data privacy within organisation offer variety of training sessions tailored to enhance colleagues' data protection knowledge.
All office-based employees required to complete annual e-learning module on data privacy.
This training equips participants with essential skills to recognise and properly handle personal data helping foster culture of privacy awareness and ensuring adherence to data protection standards at every level of organisation.
Commitment to act ethically extends beyond people and planet and includes animals.
Commitment towards animal welfare stated as part of environmental policy and in animal welfare policy.
Long-standing commitment to improve animal welfare across global supply chain and working to source all animal-derived materials used from farms with good animal welfare practices in place.
To reach ambition and establish corporate culture that promotes ethical and responsible business conduct set targets related to preventing corruption and bribery and take action to prevent unethical business behaviour across value chain.
Zero tolerance for corruption and bribery.
Ethics and anti-corruption training programme main tool for mitigating risk of corruption and bribery cases.
Provide anti-corruption training during onboarding to employees who required to sign code of ethics.
Employees can access company's code of ethics and speak up channel through H&M group ethics portal.
Awareness programmes for speak up channel held throughout year.
Make every effort to keep whistleblowers' identities strictly confidential.
Reports may made anonymously except in countries where not comply with local laws and do not tolerate retaliation against whistleblowers.
H&M group subject to legal requirements for whistleblowing.
Assess and investigate all reported code of ethics cases internally tracking number of violations annually and report annually to CEO CFO audit committee of board of directors and via annual and sustainability report.
These investigations may lead to terminations of business relationships or employment.
Conduct internal audits to ensure compliance.
Work continuously to develop responsible purchasing practices and strive to ensure purchasing practices support sustainable development in textile and clothing industry.
Do this by offering better capacity planning respecting payment terms making payroll specified cost that not negotiated educating teams on importance of sourcing practices and adhering to exit terms.
When evaluating new business supplier communicate social and environmental minimum requirements early in process to create common understanding and shared ambition.
Onboarding process includes informing business partners about importance of compliance measures and H&M Group's commitment to transparency and accountability.
New supplier or production unit onboarded only when meet social and environmental minimum requirements.
These also included in sustainability commitment.
Take risk-based approach to monitoring business partners' compliance and apply different levels and methods of evaluation depending on nature of goods and services provided.
For suppliers of commercial and non-commercial goods use system of risk-based audits and sustainable impact partnership programme (SIPP) to monitor compliance and performance.
Through SIPP ensure all suppliers meet minimum requirements.
Supplier payment flow highly automated and execution of payments based on purchase orders.
Therefore no explicit payment approval needed to make payments to suppliers eliminating potential source of late payments.
Payment terms can have big impact on suppliers' financial resilience and ability to invest.
Therefore H&M Group negotiated factoring agreement on behalf of all suppliers that gives faster access to invoice payments.
H&M Group continued to see increase in gross average wages for workers in production supply chain with relative improvement of difference to minimum wages 2024 compared with 2023 in most major production markets.
In Bangladesh difference still stood at 39 percent despite statutory minimum wage increase of 47 percent in late 2023.
Difference expected to continue to grow in coming years.
Mainland China suppliers experienced decrease in demand coupled with global economic downturn resulting in reduction of total working hours.
At same time government implemented policies to raise minimum wage to ensure living wage for low-income workers as well as keep pace with inflation.
In India government revised national minimum wage in 2024 with 4–7 percent increase in minimum wages across states.
Myanmar saw major rise of average gross wage from 2023 to 2024 with significant increase in difference between average and minimum wages.
Many suppliers in Myanmar raised wages by 20-30 percent to mitigate current situation in addition to two government-announced wage increases of MMK 1000/day during year.
In 2024 continued working with women leadership programmes.
Although factories worked to develop succession pools and made efforts to increase women workers' skills to enable advancement seen that progress takes time as needs to be vacancies which might be rare and many reasons holding women back from wanting to become supervisors.
Moving forward will focus more on foundations that will enable increase in female leadership.
H&M Group taken action to secure safety and wellbeing of people living in affected communities and access to clean air water and healthy environment.
Recognise potential negative impact on quality of air and water not only related to activities in business partners' factories but also in surrounding communities where operate.
Therefore work within this area supported by water and chemicals strategy as well as climate and materials strategy.
Wastewater discharge from factories in supply chain one of material matters related to chemicals and water pollution that also have impact on people living in affected communities.
Require all tier 1 and 2 suppliers to comply with national legislation and ZDHC standards for wastewater treatment and discharge water quality.
Require all supplier units with wet processes to have functional Effluent Treatment Plant (ETP) in place.
Although relevant suppliers made progress in improving wastewater quality recognise need for systemic change beyond individual factories.
Committed to water stewardship work with WWF to progress towards improving water quality at basin level.
To prevent and mitigate material negative impacts on communities related to access to water taken action to engage with affected stakeholders although actions not linked to specific targets.
Performed roundtable discussions to engage with affected communities and proxies such as Save the Children Water Aid and Bangladesh Rural Advancement Committee (BRAC) to discuss best possible approach to capture needs and concerns of affected communities in Bangladesh.
Continue to screen which organisation best qualified to develop method for capturing needs and concerns of people living in communities affect and depend upon.
Once finalised believe method can also applied to other production markets and communities.
Plan identify mitigation actions together with partners to gain deeper understanding of how manage these issues in efficient manner.
H&M Group taken action to ensure rights of people living in affected communities respected across value chain.
Efforts related to land-rights and livelihoods of people living in affected communities focused on increasing use of recycled and sustainably sourced materials and maximising value of material resources and products by keeping them in use longer.
These efforts supported by materials strategy.
Using leverage as global fashion company to strengthen respect for human rights across value chain through industry collaborations and partnerships such as Better Cotton Initiative.
Brands create campaigns and communication assets that inspire wide and diverse target group across markets.
Marketing by brands has major impact on consumers therefore plan and produce marketing assets consciously and responsibly.
This responsibility entails securing diverse representation of people in casting and promoting positive and healthy lifestyle.
When making products for children safety paramount.
Core focus for all roles working with children's products and vital in all stages of product development from initial idea creation to production floor.
Child safety experts set guidelines to educate employees on latest safety requirements and trends.
Base child safety work on legal requirements and knowledge about how children behave as well as customer feedback received.
All cases concerning product safety incidents carefully investigated and contribute to continuous product development.
Perform thorough risk assessments to identify potential negative impacts including developing appropriate mitigation strategies.
Continuously monitor key indicators linked to product safety such as number of orders stopped before sales or product recalls due to health and safety issues or child safety issues.
Dedicated team of data privacy professionals assesses all personal data processes to ensure individuals' right to privacy always considered.
Approach focuses on proactive measures to prevent mitigate and remediate potential negative impacts while fostering culture of data protection awareness across organisation.
Implemented robust actions to safeguard customers rights including information security measures such as data encryption technology and regular data privacy reviews to identify and address potential vulnerabilities.
Provide ongoing training for employees on data privacy best practices and compliance requirements.
All concerns and complaints logged in centralised database assigned unique identifier and tracked through to resolution.
Regular reviews conducted to ensure timely issue management.
Actions set to achieve privacy targets strengthening commitment to accountability and continuously improving privacy safeguards.
Handle personal data of customers to provide best customer experience when visiting websites or stores.
Process personal data on customer requests to deliver services fulfil orders or provide support through customer service.
Had six substantiated complaints concerning breaches of customer privacy during 2024.
All cases except one closed with no further action required by supervising authorities.
Remaining open case being managed appropriately in coordination with relevant supervising authority.
H&M Group operates across multiple markets globally each with different laws and regulations.
Recognise how and where operate has impact on many stakeholders as well as business long-term success.
In many markets where operate unethical business practices and behaviours poses risk to business.
Good procurement practices and close cooperation with business partners essential to ensure deliver on business idea and mitigate potential negative impacts on people or planet.
At H&M Group utmost importance to always act ethically transparently and responsibly across all parts of business from collaborating with suppliers to engaging with customers.
Ambition to establish corporate culture that promotes ethical and responsible business conduct.
H&M Group's risk management and internal control processes assure compliant with relevant legislation and have control over risk exposure.
Executive management team each brand and every relevant group function reviews business conduct risks on quarterly basis.
Board of directors and audit committee receive regular feedback from organisation concerning these processes.
Responsibility for H&M Group's corporate culture and business conduct stated in corporate governance report.
Undertake risk assessment as part of due diligence process for new suppliers based on risk level by country industry type of business and delivery.
Set short- and long-term goals to help mitigate identified risks and prioritisation risk-based.
H&M Group continues to explore use of third-party risk management tools that could automate business conduct risk identification process and due diligence process for business partners and other third parties.
Fundamental respect for individual and human rights sits at heart of business and culture.
This applies to everyone along value chain and includes aspects such as fair wages and working hours safe workplace freedom of association and opportunity to develop and grow.
Minimum employment standards and social policies applied across operations and supply chain to support good working conditions in safe and healthy environments for all.
As global company represent rich variety of different cultures and backgrounds.
This one of key business strengths as brings wealth of diverse knowledge experience and perspectives that enable creativity and innovation.
Actively work to cultivate inclusive corporate culture where everyone encouraged to be themselves and respect others for who they are.
'Our way' summarises values policies and guidelines and how shape way H&M Group operates to ensure business carried out in ethical responsible sustainable and transparent way.
'Our way' applies to all employees within all brands and functions of H&M Group as well as external stakeholders.
At H&M Group commitment to conduct business with high standard of honesty integrity transparency and fair play.
Code of ethics details company's expectations on employees and business partners.
All business carried out with or on behalf of H&M Group always conducted in accordance with code of ethics applicable laws and regulations in country of business.
Code of ethics includes details about zero-tolerance policy on bribery and corruption which applies to all business dealings in all countries operate.
Mandatory all business partners and employees comply with code of ethics.
See education and building awareness as crucial tools to act ethically and in compliance with applicable policies laws and regulations.
At H&M Group take any allegation of misconduct in business seriously.
Misconduct can include discrimination harassment theft fraud corruption other violations of policies and guidelines regarding ethical behaviour or violation of laws.
All reports investigated and appropriate actions taken against proven misconduct.
People should feel safe and supported when raise concern and make every effort to keep identity strictly confidential.
Reports may made anonymously except in countries where not comply with local laws and do not tolerate retaliation against anyone who raises concern in good faith.
H&M group subject to legal requirements for whistleblowing.
Any concerns or potential violations of H&M Group's policies or relevant laws can reported through externally available speak up channel which whistleblowing mechanism.
Speak up channel available to employees business partners and their employees as well as third parties.
All suppliers must sign sustainability commitment and code of ethics for business partners which set out expectations for relationship including every employee always treated with dignity and respect.
Expect business partners to establish own misconduct reporting process where employees can report complaints and concerns without fear of retaliation.
However if business partner employee cannot raise concern within own organisation or sees no action on concern that affects H&M group may use speak up channel.
This in line with OECD Due Diligence Guidance for Responsible Business Conduct and local legislation where operate.
H&M Group has implemented data privacy policy to ensure compliance with applicable legislation and uphold highest standards of data security.
Established comprehensive procedures to guide colleagues in managing personal data responsibly.
These procedures outline key elements of data privacy policy and provide step-by-step instructions that translate legal and regulatory requirements into actionable guidance for daily operations.
To further support understanding of data privacy within organisation offer variety of training sessions tailored to enhance colleagues' data protection knowledge.
All office-based employees required to complete annual e-learning module on data privacy.
This training equips participants with essential skills to recognise and properly handle personal data helping foster culture of privacy awareness and ensuring adherence to data protection standards at every level of organisation.
Commitment to act ethically extends beyond people and planet and includes animals.
Commitment towards animal welfare stated as part of environmental policy and in animal welfare policy.
Long-standing commitment to improve animal welfare across global supply chain and working to source all animal-derived materials used from farms with good animal welfare practices in place.
To reach ambition and establish corporate culture that promotes ethical and responsible business conduct set targets related to preventing corruption and bribery and take action to prevent unethical business behaviour across value chain.
Zero tolerance for corruption and bribery.
Ethics and anti-corruption training programme main tool for mitigating risk of corruption and bribery cases.
Provide anti-corruption training during onboarding to employees who required to sign code of ethics.
Employees can access company's code of ethics and speak up channel through H&M group ethics portal.
Awareness programmes for speak up channel held throughout year.
Make every effort to keep whistleblowers' identities strictly confidential.
Reports may made anonymously except in countries where not comply with local laws and do not tolerate retaliation against whistleblowers.
H&M group subject to legal requirements for whistleblowing.
Assess and investigate all reported code of ethics cases internally tracking number of violations annually and report annually to CEO CFO audit committee of board of directors and via annual and sustainability report.
These investigations may lead to terminations of business relationships or employment.
Conduct internal audits to ensure compliance.
Work continuously to develop responsible purchasing practices and strive to ensure purchasing practices support sustainable development in textile and clothing industry.
Do this by offering better capacity planning respecting payment terms making payroll specified cost that not negotiated educating teams on importance of sourcing practices and adhering to exit terms.
When evaluating new business supplier communicate social and environmental minimum requirements early in process to create common understanding and shared ambition.
Onboarding process includes informing business partners about importance of compliance measures and H&M Group's commitment to transparency and accountability.
New supplier or production unit onboarded only when meet social and environmental minimum requirements.
These also included in sustainability commitment.
Take risk-based approach to monitoring business partners' compliance and apply different levels and methods of evaluation depending on nature of goods and services provided.
For suppliers of commercial and non-commercial goods use system of risk-based audits and sustainable impact partnership programme (SIPP) to monitor compliance and performance.
Through SIPP ensure all suppliers meet minimum requirements.
Supplier payment flow highly automated and execution of payments based on purchase orders.
Therefore no explicit payment approval needed to make payments to suppliers eliminating potential source of late payments.
Payment terms can have big impact on suppliers' financial resilience and ability to invest.
Therefore H&M Group negotiated factoring agreement on behalf of all suppliers that gives faster access to invoice payments.