

===== PAGE 3 =====
social impact initiatives for 2024. As we reflect on the progress made over
the past year, we are reminded of SHEIN’s role in doing our part for a more
sustainable future – one that is socially equitable, environmentally resilient, and
driven by innovation.
At SHEIN, we remain committed to making the beauty of fashion accessible
stylish apparel and other lifestyle products to customers across the globe.
These challenges are multifaceted and continuously evolving; yet, we remain
committed to making progress on our sustainability goals with innovative
solutions and like-minded partners.
We recognise that sustainability is integral to our long-term business
resilience. From creating more stable, long-term relationships with our
suppliers and other ecosystem partners, to reducing costs and delivery times
with shortened logistics chains as we work to reduce our environmental
footprint, and investing in innovative technologies to support the circular
economy transition, our commitment to sustainability helps to position SHEIN
for the future by creating long-term value for our partners and communities
while enhancing our ability to adapt to changing market dynamics and shifts in
our macro environment.
To ensure that we focus our efforts where they can have the greatest impact
on our business and stakeholders, we conducted a double materiality
assessment in 2024. This process aligned our strategies with the nine
priorities in our evoluSHEIN roadmap and the most significant environmental,
social, and governance (ESG) issues we face.
Our supply chain remains a key priority, and we remain committed to
surveys, as well as promoting greater awareness of our grievance channels
and ensuring that we follow through promptly on issues raised.
We also continue to work on mitigating our environmental impact across our
operations and value chain; in our decarbonisation journey, I am pleased to
update that we have approved near and long-term science-based emissions
reduction targets with the Science Based Targets initiative (SBTi), and that the
SBTi has verified our net-zero science-based target by 2050. We have been
implementing emissions reduction actions, guided by our decarbonisation
roadmap, and while we have started to see reductions from our baseline
emissions, specifically in our Scope 1 and 2 emissions in 2024, there remains
more to be done in scaling these efforts across our value chain, which we are
highly committed to.
With progress in our sustainability journey, we have also begun to explore
opportunities to contribute to industry-wide efforts. In particular, we see a
role for SHEIN to play in supporting the development of a circular textiles
ecosystem. Scaling textile-to-textile recycling will be critical to realising this
objective, and we have started to work with partners across multiple initiatives,
such as our research with Donghua University into polyester recycling
technology, as well as partnering with fibre manufacturers to scale production.
To keep us on the right track, we have also strengthened our corporate
SHEIN X designers, and other partners who through their work with us, also
play a part in advancing SHEIN’s mission, our business success, and our
sustainability goals.
Thank you for your support as we navigate our journey ahead.
Sky Xu, CEO, SHEIN

===== PAGE 4 =====
to freely express their individuality through fashion, without the
constraints of price, geographic location, or restrictions on size or
style. Our goal is to ensure customers feel recognised, included,
and valued as part of the SHEIN community.
Our Products
international sellers to deliver a greater variety of products to our customers.
To reach our customers, SHEIN operates a growing global network of
warehousing and logistics facilities.
Our Core Advantage: On-Demand Business Model
SHEIN’s on-demand business model, enabled by our proprietary digital supply
This digitalised process to gauge demand and manage supply ensures that
we closely align the number and types of products procured from our suppliers
with what our customers are looking for, thus minimising inventory waste
from unsold items. It also enables us to offer a range of styles to cater to our
customers’ diverse preferences. By matching demand and supply more

===== PAGE 5 =====
Welcome to our fourth annual Sustainability and Social Impact Report,
where we share our ESG goals, progress, and performance metrics
for the financial year 2024, spanning from January 1, 2024, to
December 31, 2024.
This report provides a comprehensive overview of how our evoluSHEIN
roadmap guides our environmental and social impact initiatives, takes stock of
our current actions against our targets, and outlines our plans for the future. We
also reaffirm our commitment to the Ten Principles of the UN Global Compact
(UNCG) and detail our progress in adhering to these principles.
anticipation of upcoming regulatory reporting expectations in this region. For
FY2024, changes in our reporting scope are detailed in the relevant sections.
This includes adjustments to our emissions calculation methodology for the
2024 inventory. No notable restatements were made to historical data.
Assurance procedures for selected information have been performed by an
external independent assurer in accordance with the International Standard
on Assurance Engagements (ISAE) 3000. For more details, please see
page 77.
We highly value and welcome your feedback on our Sustainability and

===== PAGE 6 =====
the material issues and their corresponding impacts, risks, and
opportunities, we can develop and implement strategies that are
aligned with our organisational goals and values, as well as the
perspectives and expectations of our key stakeholders.
Assessment Methodology
• Impact perspective : A topic is considered material if SHEIN’s actions
result in actual or potential significant impacts on people or the
environment.
• Financial perspective : A topic is considered material if it is likely to trigger
significant financial effects on SHEIN, i.e. generate risks or opportunities


===== PAGE 8 =====
Materiality: Identifying Priority Areas
Material Topic Description
Energy Management
and EmissionsThis topic refers to SHEIN’s energy consumption in our own operations and throughout our value chain, resulting in greenhouse gas
(GHG) and air pollutant emissions, as well as our actions to reduce these emissions.
Waste and Hazardous
Materials ManagementThis topic refers to SHEIN’s efforts to manage waste generated during the production process, including reducing, reusing,
and recycling materials within our own operations and facilities, as well as the safe disposal of hazardous waste that may pose
environmental or health risks.
Product Design and Life
Cycle Management This topic refers to SHEIN’s efforts to promote sustainability and circularity in the design and production process, as well as end-of-
life management of our products.
Labour Practices This topic refers to SHEIN’s efforts to instil ethical labour standards within our workforce, including the prohibition of forced labour,
to protect worker rights in the supply chain, such as measures to prevent the use of child or forced labour, violence against and
harassment of workers, and to improve working conditions.
Climate ChangeThis topic refers to how SHEIN may contribute to, and be affected by, climate change through both physical risks (such as extreme
weather and rising sea levels) and transition risks, as well as related opportunities. It also covers SHEIN’s efforts to mitigate our
impact through decarbonisation actions and other measures to reduce the use of virgin resources in the manufacturing of our
products.For more details on the methodology and assumptions of our materiality
assessment, and on the material impacts, risks, and opportunities identified,
please see page 93.
We will continue to refine our materiality assessment process to align our
social and sustainability goals and programmes more closely with our most
significant areas of impact, risks, and opportunities. We will update our process
periodically to incorporate evolving trends across the industry and within

===== PAGE 9 =====
gender, age, body type, ability, or economic status. The three
strategic pillars are Equitable Empowerment (People) , Collective
Resilience (Planet), and Waste-Less Innovation (Process) .
With these three pillars, we focus on the most material risks and opportunities
for SHEIN and our stakeholders within the ecosystem, and develop strategies
roadmaps which will likely take more than five years to bear fruit.
Our evoluSHEIN strategy anchors our commitment to being more responsible
for our environmental impact and improving lives in the communities we reach. 
===== PAGE 10 =====
SHEIN is a signatory to the UNGC and supports the Ten Principles
focused on human rights, labour, the environment, and anti-corruption.
We also align our sustainability programmes and initiatives with the United
Nations Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs), which help guide our
efforts to drive continual progress. The details of our contributions to the
SDGs can be found in the Annex (see page 99).Contributions to UN SDGs

===== PAGE 11 =====
• Ensuring SHEIN’s compliance with applicable ESG laws and regulations.
• Driving progress towards achieving organisational ESG key performance
indicators (KPIs) and targets.
• Reviewing the scope and reliability of information disclosed in the annual
sustainability and social impact report.
Executive Chairman and CEO, they maintain oversight authority on ESG-
related matters, including issues such as global supply chain compliance,
forced labour and child labour risks, climate change management, and
environmental sustainability.
The specific responsibilities of the Board Sustainability Committee include,
among others:
Dr. Christoph Wolff.• Balram Gidoomal CBE is an experienced businessman, entrepreneur,
and philanthropist, whose experience includes serving as Chairman of
CottonConnect and Chairman of the Board of Directors of Traidcraft plc
and the London Sustainability Exchange.
• Robin Millington is a specialist on sustainable finance, corporate transition,
of Planet Tracker, a multiple award-winning sustainable finance think tank,
founding Director of Wetlands International, as a Director at the European
Climate Foundation, and serving on several boards and advisory councils
all related to sustainability transition.
• Dr. Xiaohui Liang is an expert on corporate social responsibility and
on Business and Human Rights at Peking University Law School.
• Prof. Dr. Christoph Wolff is an executive, board advisor, and investor with a
focus on net-zero transformation in mobility and energy industries, whose
experience includes being the Global Head of Mobility and Member of
the Executive Committee at the World Economic Forum and Managing
Director of the European Climate Foundation.
Our commitment to a robust sustainability governance framework is supported
by a comprehensive set of internal policies and guidelines that define clear
corporate governance standards for our suppliers, Marketplace sellers, and
internal teams, to embed environmental and social responsibility into our
operations. Our ESG governance begins at the top, with oversight from senior
management, and extends to working-level teams focused on dedicated



===== PAGE 13 =====
Here are some ways SHEIN engages with our various stakeholder groups:
Stakeholder Group Stakeholder Connection Modes of Engagement
EmployeesCreating a work environment that supports employee
wellbeing and provides opportunities for career
advancement• Daily surveys
• Regular communications with assigned programme coordinators from SHEIN
Suppliers of SHEIN-Branded Products Building a resilient and ethical supply chain that
prioritises fair labour practices, environmental
sustainability, and product quality• Supplier visits to gather feedback
• Anonymous surveys
CustomersAdapting to the evolving needs and preferences of our
diverse customer base• Customer service portal on SHEIN app/website and additional customer feedback channels through social media
• In-market consumer surveys, including on topics such as sustainability and circularity
Commercial Partners and Industry
AssociationsCollaborating with key partners to drive innovation,
• Participation in industry feedback and consultation exercises
NGOs and Academic InstitutionsLeveraging expertise and feedback from partners to
advance sustainability and social impact goals• Regular engagements to exchange opinions and provide updates
• Participation in events and conferences
• Project collaborations on identified topics

===== PAGE 14 =====
than 160 countries. Our dedication to inclusivity drives us to offer products that cater to diverse customer needs, preferences, and budgets, and to direct
our philanthropic efforts towards underserved communities. We also recognise the importance of our employees in shaping our culture and driving the
organisation, and seek to maintain a safe, inclusive, and nurturing work environment where they can thrive. INTRODUCTION
PLANET PROCESS GOVERNANCE ANNEXPEOPLE:
Equitable

===== PAGE 15 =====
PEOPLE
Our Targets and Aspirations 2024 Progress
Preferred brand
for customer self-expression• Continued empowering customers to express their individuality through fashion — 4 in 5 customers in our 2024 surveys
administered by The Harris Poll stated that SHEIN’s variety allowed them to find clothes that fit their style, and that they
wanted to wear repeatedly; 4 in 5 also cited this variety as a key motivator for shopping with SHEIN.
• Continued driving accessibility and affordability, with 64% of respondents in our 2024 Circularity Study finding SHEIN
more affordable than other brands.
Top-ranked employer
including on contract manufacturers representing approximately 95% of SHEIN-branded products by procurement
value in 2024.
• Organised 107 group workshops and 1,212 one-on-one training sessions on social and environmental compliance for
contract manufacturers and Tier 2 suppliers.
• Upgraded 40 supplier factories covering about 90,000 square metres of workspace.

===== PAGE 16 =====
We believe that quality and style should be within everyone’s reach, regardless
of their economic means or background. Our agile supply chain supports
SHEIN’s goal of keeping unsold inventory levels low, and as an e-commerce
retailer without physical stores, we achieve significant cost savings. These
advantages enable us to offer our customers choice and value at consistently
affordable prices. Our SHEIN 2024 Circularity Study4 found that 64% of
surveyed customers regarded SHEIN as more affordable than other brands,
with 19% considering it equally affordable. This is further supported by the
regions, recognising the beauty and importance of celebrating diverse cultural
styles and heritage.
4 The SHEIN 2024 Circularity Study was conducted in partnership with Alchemer, a USA-based market research firm, between November and December 2024. The methodology involved surveying 3,568
SHEIN customers aged 18–29 and 30–45 across markets in France, Germany, Italy, Poland, the UK, and the USA.
5 The Harris Poll conducted online surveys on behalf of SHEIN among adults aged 18 and older in the USA and the UK. The USA surveys took place from June 17-25, 2024 (2,013 respondents), and August

===== PAGE 17 =====
pages. When a customer submits a question or concern, it is directed to an
appropriate SHEIN customer service representative, based on factors such
as the customer’s location and the nature of the issue. We currently provide
customer service support in over 20 different languages, enabling us to
better serve customers across various regions. We strive to uphold a service

===== PAGE 18 =====
We are committed to providing development and career growth
opportunities to SHEIN employees across the globe, and to providing a
safe, inclusive, and respectful environment for our diverse workforce.
We aim to empower our employees by offering essential resources and
training for their professional development and advancement, and to

===== PAGE 19 =====
that accommodates various life situations, including annual, medical, and
family-related leave12, in line with local laws and regulations.SHEIN’s holistic performance appraisal system promotes employee
engagement through a regular cycle of objective setting and goal alignment,
with twice-yearly reviews that span across teams. Performance-based
bonuses are awarded to employees to recognise their contributions, and
job transfers following successful interviews and providing our employees
with opportunities to explore various career paths that better align with their
personal and professional goals.
11 This includes training hours completed by employees who were no longer in service with the company by 31 December 2024. The average number of training hours was computed by dividing the total number of training hours by the total number of employees who underwent training in FY2024.
12 All permanent employees are entitled to take family-related leave. The types of family-related leave offered include parental care leave, childcare leave, prenatal check-up leave, paternity leave, maternity leave, marriage leave, breastfeeding leave, and bereavement leave, in line with local laws and regulations.Over 133,000 training hours total in 2024

===== PAGE 20 =====
Fostering a Culture of Inclusion
With a culturally diverse workforce comprising many nationalities, SHEIN
places great importance on creating an inclusive work environment where
every team member has a voice and is empowered to contribute their unique
perspectives, ensuring a more well-rounded dialogue that drives continuous
surveys. Employees voluntarily respond to daily questions on topics such
as peer and supervisor relationships, performance, corporate culture,
work environment, and job satisfaction. Responses are anonymised and
aggregated at the team level, then provided to managers with actionable
insights to improve employee experiences.
an opportunity to share their feedback and concerns with management.
Across our global offices, 32 townhalls were held in 2024. Fostering a Culture of Respect
SHEIN is deeply committed to building a work culture and environment where
everyone can thrive. Our inclusive talent management system aims to provide
learning, development, and advancement opportunities for all, with the
Disability Inclusion
SHEIN is committed to supporting employees with disabilities by fostering
an inclusive environment in our offices. To put this commitment into practice,
we have piloted a range of inclusive measures across our offices in Australia,
Brazil, Canada, Japan, Singapore, Thailand, Türkiye, and the USA. These

===== PAGE 21 =====
SHEIN believes that ensuring the safety and health of our employees is key to
a productive workforce.
Our Workplace Health and Safety Statement governs all environmental,
health, and safety (EHS) practices in SHEIN’s warehouses, distribution
centres, supplier facilities, and corporate offices, outlining our EHS approach

===== PAGE 22 =====
2022.14 Average year-to-date rate until December 2024; data was tracked beginning from September
2024.SHEIN Warehouses in Brazil
In partnership with local third-party logistics providers, SHEIN operates four
warehouses in São Paulo, Brazil, which have created over 3,500 indirect
jobs. Since we established these warehouses in 2023, our locally hired EHS
• New EHS Standard Operating Procedures: We introduced 28 new EHS
management procedures aligned with local laws and regulations. This
includes safety guidelines for transportation companies, guidelines for
outsourced labour, and a manual for salespeople.
• EHS training: We developed a comprehensive EHS onboarding

===== PAGE 23 =====
as many of them are small- to medium-sized enterprises that may lack the knowledge,
systems, and infrastructure needed to advance human rights protections on their own.
We adopt a targeted approach that prioritises the most relevant actions, given the
risks and opportunities in our supply chain – ranging from policy development and
implementation to compliance enforcement, training, capacity-building measures, and
Enhancements
• Uplift Worker CommunitiesOur approach to supplier management is three-pronged: purchasing fairly, enforcing compliance with our policies, and empowering change.
15 The supply chain policies and programmes described within this section apply to contract manufacturers and Tier 2 suppliers for SHEIN-branded products. Tier 2 suppliers include, without limitation, suppliers of fabrics, packaging and other accessories for use by contract manufacturers.Purchasing
Fairly1 2 3INTRODUCTION
PLANET PROCESS GOVERNANCE ANNEXPEOPLE:

===== PAGE 24 =====
our contract manufacturers can easily access to directly purchase any fabrics
they need. This approach enables our contract manufacturers to keep their
fabric costs manageable and enhance their fabric inventory management.
Pay Suppliers on Time
As a responsible business partner, we are dedicated to ensuring that all our
working conditions. Support Production Planning
With access to our suite of supply chain technology solutions, our suppliers
gain visibility into key information, including capacity, inventory levels, and
sales performance, which enables them to forecast and plan production
more efficiently. SHEIN also provides suppliers with support in preparing for
volumes. Ahead of such peak periods, we brief suppliers on planned business
orders and conduct refresher training sessions on aspects such as invoicing
and payments, inventory management, and the utilisation of SHEIN’s digital
systems.
SHEIN engages with our suppliers regularly to understand how we can

===== PAGE 25 =====
compliance with relevant local laws, rules, governmental orders, and regulatory
requirements, including aspects such as payment of wages, working hours,
workplace health and safety, labour and social welfare, and environmental
standards. Suppliers who sign the SCoC also agree to ensure the continuous
compliance of any permitted subcontractors with the rules set out in the SCoC.
a comprehensive set of Supplier Responsibility Standards , which further
detail our expectations of suppliers across various areas, including labour
rights, health and safety, environment, ethics, and management practices.
Similarly, the standards were developed in alignment with internationally
recognised frameworks, including the ILO conventions and the UDHR.Key requirements on our suppliers include:
bargaining between workers and management.
• Strictly complying with applicable laws and regulations related to
environmental protection, and adopting reasonable measures to reduce or
mitigate any negative impact of their operations on the environment.
Enforce Risk-Based Supply Chain Audits
To closely monitor our suppliers’ compliance with SHEIN’s standards, we
or refusal to undergo audits); (ii) Labour (this includes violations relating to
forced labour, child labour18, wages, working hours, and other labour issues);
(iii) Health and Safety; (iv) Environmental Protection and Energy Saving;
and (v) Management Systems. The assessment process involves interviews
with workers and requires supporting documentation, such as payslips and
practice ensures continuous high-level oversight of the implementation of our
compliance programmes.
17 These include contract manufacturers, packaging suppliers that SHEIN procures packaging from for use by our contract manufacturers, and fabric suppliers onboarded onto our fabric library.
18 We define child labour as any person under the age of 15 (or 14 in the case of the exceptions set out in ILO Convention No. 138), under the age of completion of compulsory education or under the minimum age for employment in the country/region, whichever is the highest. This is specified in the SRS
Assessment Tool that SRS auditors use. In China, in accordance with local labour laws, minors under the age of 16 cannot be recruited for employment.Cultivate an Ethical Supplier NetworkINTRODUCTION

===== PAGE 26 =====
87% of our SRS audits on existing suppliers and subcontractors in China.
All individual auditors from these firms who conducted SRS audits for SHEIN
are also APSCA-certified. More information on our 2024 SRS audits is on
page 28.
To reduce audit fatigue and duplication, SHEIN also recognises submissions

===== PAGE 27 =====
subcontractor. These include severe wage violations (i.e. delayed
payment of wages and failure to pay minimum wage), workplace
health and safety concerns, and serious environmental pollution.
Suppliers and subcontractors are given 30 days to address these
violations; failure to do so will result in the termination of the

===== PAGE 28 =====
represented approximately 95% of SHEIN-branded products by procurement
value in 2024. The remaining 714 audits were conducted on fabric suppliers,
packaging suppliers, and subcontractors associated with our contract
manufacturers. These audits covered suppliers representing 83% of the
packaging procured by SHEIN for use by our contract manufacturers, as well
as 86% of the fabrics procured by our contract manufacturers through our
fabric library, based on procurement value in 2024.24

===== PAGE 29 =====
Charging electric vehicles or their batteries inside the production workshop, warehouse, or dormitory
Workers smoking or using open flames in the production workshop or warehouse
Direct or flue-type gas water heaters are used in worker dormitories0.7
0.5
2.2
<0.1
0.0
Environmental Hazards:
Illegal disposal of hazardous waste, discharging of untreated wastewater, or discharging of waste gas <0.1 0.0 0.0
ITV categories
Age Violation:

===== PAGE 31 =====
channels empowers workers to raise concerns and seek redress. It supports
the uncovering and remediation of potential violations in our supply chain,
thus fostering a safer and more equitable work environment.
SHEIN’s Supplier Responsibility Standards require suppliers to implement
appropriate, effective, and easy-to-use feedback channels, with at least one

===== PAGE 32 =====
organisational philosophy and that of our suppliers. To ensure that our internal
policies are effectively understood and implemented on the ground, SHEIN
invests in targeted training programmes to raise suppliers’ understanding of
our ethical standards and equip them with tools and knowledge to operate
responsibly. In 2024, we organised 107 group workshops and 1,212 one-on-
within their own operations. Suppliers are also provided with topic-specific
training based on areas of improvement identified through their SRS audits. In
2024, we conducted targeted training for over 70 suppliers on key compliance
risks such as child labour, wages and working hours, and fire safety. We also
held 45 workshops to educate suppliers on how to develop and implement
accountability. During the year, SHEIN conducted seven in-house SRS training
sessions for 174 employees, including representatives from our sustainability,
product, fabrics, and logistics safety teams.29 The topics covered include
health and safety, environmental management, fire prevention and emergency
response, living wages, and management of working hours and wages. We
also leverage external resources to provide SHEIN employees with training on

===== PAGE 33 =====
suppliers’ workers need to juggle work and childcare responsibilities, we
provide financial support for suppliers to create family-friendly working
environments by setting up childcare facilities. Childcare services are
offered at no charge to workers at supplier factories, helping to alleviate
day-to-day childcare needs. 25 childcare centres were in operation during

===== PAGE 34 =====
sustainable ecosystems in the places where we operate.
We believe that the SHEIN platform with our global customer reach,
digital marketing and analytics tools, and efficient logistics network, can
empower small and independent businesses and entrepreneurs, from
SHEIN Marketplace sellers and brands to SHEIN X artists and designers, in
can also access performance dashboards that provide real-time insights
on market demand, enabling them to make informed and swift business
decisions. Additionally, sellers benefit from SHEIN’s global logistics network,
ensuring efficient order processing. We also provide training sessions
and workshops where sellers learn tools and strategies to boost their
growth resources support all aspects of sellers’ daily business activities,
including digital merchant back-office management, structured business
training, logistics, and warehousing resource support. Most of these
resources are provided to sellers free of charge.
SHEIN’s support and initiatives have helped sellers unlock new growth

===== PAGE 35 =====
SHEIN allows us to showcase our products to millions of potential customers
worldwide, accelerating our growth in the global market.” They began building a
B2C e-commerce team upon joining SHEIN, initially targeting the Italian market
before expanding to Spain, France, Germany, the Netherlands, and Poland.
Since their integration with SHEIN Marketplace in May 2024 in Italy, and in
By joining SHEIN Marketplace, the company significantly expanded its reach
thanks to a single, streamlined store covering all major European markets. In
addition, competitive shipping fees ensured fast, efficient delivery for consumers,
while real-time insights enabled Creaciones Euromoda to adapt to rising demand
and export its brand internationally. As Fran notes, “SHEIN Marketplace has

===== PAGE 36 =====
The SHEIN X programme assists independent artists and designers in
launching their fashion collections by handling product development,
marketing, and logistics. Designers earn commissions on sales and retain
the intellectual property rights to their designs. As of the end of 2024, we have
worked with over 5,300 artists and designers from more than 20 countries to

===== PAGE 37 =====
that the SHEIN team manages crucial
aspects such as production, marketing,
and logistics is a tremendous relief,
letting me concentrate on what I love
most: creating.

===== PAGE 39 =====
several decades.
SHEIN’s financial support went towards organising special events for the
children, providing a fun environment for them to acquire soft skills and grow
in their personal journey. During the summer holidays, day camps were
organised for approximately 100 primary school children, during which they
Türkiye office and engage with SHEIN staff to learn about their career journey.
3. Germany – LoveFund powered by SHEIN
For the second consecutive year, SHEIN collaborated with Radio Energy on
the “LoveFund powered by SHEIN” initiative to promote and support local
community initiatives across Germany.
Radio Energy listeners and SHEIN customers voted for their favourite non-
profit organisations, online and at special SHEIN LoveFund kiosks that toured
Berlin, Mülheim an der Ruhr and Sindelfingen. More than 8,000 votes were
In just six months, over 290 children aged 6 to 14 from highly vulnerable
backgrounds and families facing severe economic hardship in Naples took
part in educational and social activities, surpassing the project’s original goal
of reaching 200 children.
INTRODUCTION

===== PAGE 42 =====
Since its establishment, SHEIN Foundation has committed €5 million to
the Africa Collect Textiles Foundation to promote used textile donation and
recycling in Kenya and the broader African region. See more details on page 68.Advancing
Sustainable ChangeImproving Lives
in CommunitiesProtecting
Biodiversity
Focusing on women, young people and
the underserved, to overcome systemic
inclusive future where everyone can
contribute meaningfully and reach their
full potential.Addressing the challenges of biodiversity
and habitat loss arising from climate
change by supporting projects and
programmes that aim to protect, restore,
the development and implementation
of new innovations and strategies in
environmental and social sustainability,
to catalyse scalable solutions that aim to
accelerate the transition to a more circular
and sustainable fashion industry.SHEIN Foundation’s Focus Areas
The SHEIN Foundation will focus its support on organisations aligned with its charitable purposes which include, in part, the following missions:

===== PAGE 43 =====
RESILIENCERESILIENCE
Why It Matters
Climate resilience is essential for the long-term sustainability and competitiveness of any business. Climate-related risks can have significant impact on supply
chain stability, business continuity, and stakeholder trust. At SHEIN, we believe in investing in strategies that address climate change and build collective
resilience across our operations and supply chains, to ensure that we can future proof our business and thrive in an increasingly dynamic environment.
Like many companies, we face the complex challenge of decoupling our growth from resource consumption. We are actively working to lower our GHG emissions
both within our operations and across our supply chain. As of May 2025, we have approved near- and long-term science-based emissions reduction targets with
the SBTi, and the SBTi has verified our net-zero science-based target by 2050.
In addition, we are working on increasing the use of materials with lower carbon and water footprints in SHEIN products, as we seek to reduce our impact on the
climate and natural ecosystems. We believe that through SHEIN’s innovation-led approach and our cultivation of strategic partnerships, we are well-positioned to
help accelerate solutions that can drive lasting change across our industry.PLANETINTRODUCTION
PL A NE T:
Collective
ResiliencePROCESS GOVERNANCE ANNEX
PEOPLEDecarbonise
Our Value
ChainSource
Responsible
Materials Protect
Nature and
Biodiversity
2024 SUSTAINABILITY AND
SOCIAL IMPACT REPORT43 Our Climate
Risks and
Impact

===== PAGE 44 =====
Our Targets and Aspirations 2024 Progress
Reduce absolute Scope 1 and 2 GHG emissions
by 42% by 2030• Implemented decarbonisation initiatives that led to emissions reductions of 16,582 metric tons of CO₂e across Scope 1
and Scope 2, as well as 867,721 metric tons of CO₂e for Scope 3.
• Decreased emissions from our own operations (Scope 1 and 2) by 4.4%.
• Secured approval from the SBTi for our near-term science-based emissions reduction targets. Additionally, we
committed to setting long-term emissions reduction targets with the SBTi in line with reaching net-zero by 2050, and
submitted these targets for the SBTi’s validation. Our net-zero target was approved by the SBTi in May 2025.Reduce absolute Scope 3 GHG emissions by 25%
by 2030
Reach net-zero GHG emissions across the value
chain by 2050
Use electricity only from renewable sources for
operations directly managed by SHEIN by 2030• Derived 76% of electricity purchased for our own operations from renewable sources in 2024, up from 72% in 2023.
Source 100% forest-safe viscose30 and
paper-based packaging31 for SHEIN-branded
products by 2025• Sourced 72.5% of viscose fabrics for SHEIN-branded products from Canopy ‘Green Shirt’ rated producers, marking
continued progress from over 60% in 2023.
• Transitioning our sub-brands to forest-safe paper-based packaging, with two of our sub-brands fully using Forest
Stewardship Council (FSC)-certified paper-based packaging.
Ensure all packaging sourced for SHEIN-branded
products contains 50% preferred materials32 by
2030• Increased the proportion of packaging procured that contained at least 50% preferred materials from 16.2% in 2023 to
17.0% in 2024.
• Used express delivery bags made of at least 50% recycled polyethylene (PE) for 50.1% of packages shipped by SHEIN.
Transition 31% of the polyester used for SHEIN-
branded products to recycled polyester by 2030• Used recycled polyester for 6.7% of the polyester sourced for SHEIN-branded products, with 12.1% of this recycled
polyester coming from textile-to-textile recycling.
Source 50% of SHEIN-branded products through
our evoluSHEIN by Design initiative by 2030• Produced 8.3% of SHEIN-branded products made with textiles designated by SHEIN in line with our evoluSHEIN
Standard.33
30 SHEIN currently sources forest-safe viscose from producers awarded a 'Green Shirt' rating in Canopy’s Hot Button Report, indicating low risk of sourcing from Ancient and Endangered Forests (for more information on Ancient
and Endangered Forests, please refer to Canopy’s Forest Mapper ).
31 SHEIN currently sources FSC-certified paper-based packaging for forest-safe paper-based packaging.
32 Preferred materials used for packaging are recycled PE and paper packaging not sourced from Ancient and Endangered Forests.
33 Details of our evoluSHEIN Standard are on page 57. SHEIN’s decarbonisation initiatives are focused on
lowering GHG emissions across all stages of the product
life cycle as part of our broader commitment to climate
action. Meanwhile, our responsible sourcing practices
aim to promote the use of raw materials that are less
resource-intensive, whilst encouraging suppliers to adopt
manufacturing practices that consume less resources
such as water and energy. Finally, SHEIN is also
committed to contributing to projects that help conserve
natural resources and promote biodiversity.Our Approach
Our three strategic priorities for driving impact are to:
Decarbonise
Our Value Chain
Source Responsible
Materials
Protect Nature and
BiodiversityPLANETINTRODUCTION
PL A NE T:
Collective
ResiliencePROCESS GOVERNANCE ANNEX
PEOPLEDecarbonise
Our Value
ChainSource
Responsible
Materials Protect
Nature and
Biodiversity
2024 SUSTAINABILITY AND
SOCIAL IMPACT REPORT44 Our Climate
Risks and
Impact

===== PAGE 45 =====
Climate change is one of the most pressing challenges of our
time, with far-reaching implications for the environment and the
communities we interact with across our ecosystem. SHEIN is
committed to identifying and reducing GHG emissions throughout
our operations and value chain activities.
We are exposed to a range of climate-related risks that could significantly
affect SHEIN’s business performance and operations, adding to the urgency
for us to assess and manage these risks proactively. In 2022, we engaged an
over the next five years. Using a data-driven framework model, we modelled
the financial implications, expressed as 5-year Earnings Value at Risk
(EV@R), under different climate scenarios based on the latest global climate
model data and shared socioeconomic pathways.
Below is a summary of the types of risks we are exposed to:
• Physical risks include potential operational disruptions and asset damage
due to extreme weather events and long-term shifts in climate. These risks
can directly impact our own facility operations, our supply chains, and the
availability of raw materials.
• Transition risks arise from various factors such as changes in policy,
market dynamics, consumer preferences, and investor sentiment. Policy
risks involve increased carbon pricing and regulatory changes, while
market risks include shifts in consumer behaviour towards sustainable
products, increased scrutiny from investors prioritising low-carbon
investments, and potential reputational damage from failing to address
climate change adequately.
The risk assessment analysis informs our strategic planning, as well as our
adaptation and mitigation plans, helping us to strengthen SHEIN’s resilience to
climate change. At the same time, we recognise that climate change presents
unique opportunities for innovation, enabling SHEIN to develop and implement
solutions that could drive growth.Our Climate Risks and ImpactINTRODUCTION
PL A NE T:
Collective
ResiliencePROCESS GOVERNANCE ANNEX
PEOPLEDecarbonise
Our Value
ChainSource
Responsible
Materials Protect
Nature and
Biodiversity
2024 SUSTAINABILITY AND
SOCIAL IMPACT REPORT45 Our Climate
Risks and
Impact

===== PAGE 46 =====
At SHEIN, we understand the role we have to play within our own
operations and across our value chain in adapting to the impacts of
climate change by supporting the transition to a low-carbon future.
Addressing climate change will require systemic solutions and partnerships
across multiple industries, bringing together governments, businesses, and
local communities to transform how products are produced, transported,
and consumed. We recognise that achieving our net-zero ambitions will be
a complex and long-term challenge, one that will require significant time,
resources, and close collaboration. This includes efforts within our own
operations, across our value chain, and with like-minded partners who share
our commitment and can support us on our journey.
Within this operating context, our climate strategy is guided by the following
priorities:
1
2
3
4Set targets and be accountable: This means formulating clear and
credible goals that are both ambitious and pragmatic, and reporting
our progress transparently.
Achieve and amplify impact: This means devising a robust strategy
and a clear action plan to implement emissions reduction actions
based on the potential and scale of impact across our value chain, and
leveraging partnerships to scale these actions across our value chain.
and collaborating with like-minded stakeholders to enable progress
beyond our value chain.Understand our impact: This involves developing an accurate and
comprehensive carbon emissions inventory, as well as understanding
the impacts, risks, and opportunities that our emissions profile presents.
34 In line with SBTi’s requirements, and in conformance with the GHG Protocol Corporate Value Chain (Scope 3) Accounting and Reporting Standard, the scope of the target includes Category 1 (Purchased Goods and Services), Category 3 (Fuel- and Energy-Related Activities), Category 4 (Upstream Transportation
and Distribution), Category 5 (Waste Generated in Operations), and Category 12 (End-of-Life Treatment of Sold Products).
35 In line with SBTi’s Corporate Net Zero Standard criteria, our long-term targets cover at least 90% of our total Scope 3 emissions. Over the past few years, we have laid a strong foundation focusing on the
first two priorities. We started measuring and disclosing carbon emissions
across our value chain in 2022, and conducted a climate risk assessment in
partnership with Risilience, a SaaS platform provider that works closely with its
academic partner, the Centre for Risk Studies at the University of Cambridge
Judge Business School, to develop its environmental frameworks. In 2023, we
committed to setting near-term emissions reduction targets in line with climate
science with the SBTi, and in 2024, we committed to setting science-based
emissions reduction targets in line with reaching net-zero by 2050.
We have also undertaken initial emissions reduction actions, which have
formed the building blocks for our decarbonisation roadmap that will guide our
future progress.
Our Commitment to Climate Action
Our climate ambition is aligned with the Paris Agreement’s goal of limiting
global temperature rise to 1.5°C above pre-industrial levels. Our climate
targets, which have been approved by the SBTi in accordance with their
criteria and considerations for the 1.5°C emissions pathway, are as follows:
• Overall Net-Zero Target:
– Reach net-zero GHG emissions across the value chain by 2050.
• Near-Term Targets:
– Reduce absolute Scope 1 and 2 GHG emissions by 42% by 2030. ^
– Reduce absolute Scope 3 GHG emissions34 by 25% by 2030. ^
– Increase active annual sourcing of renewable electricity to 100% by 2030.
• Long-Term Targets35:
– Reduce absolute Scope 1 and 2 GHG emissions by 90% by 2050. ^
– Reduce absolute Scope 3 GHG emissions by 90% by 2050. ^
^ Targets are from a 2023 base year.Our Carbon Footprint
We report our emissions in accordance with the GHG Protocol Corporate
Accounting and Reporting Standard. Our GHG emissions inventory (Scopes
1 to 3) for 2024 is independently verified by Bureau Veritas, in accordance with
ISO 14064-1:2018 and the GHG Protocol.
As part of our continual efforts to improve the accuracy of our carbon
accounting, we have made several adjustments to our emissions calculation
methodology for the 2024 inventory. For example, this includes expanding
our disclosures of additional Scope 3 categories, in line with improved data
availability and the scope of our targets. We have also enhanced data accuracy
by integrating and aligning various internal data management systems,
enabling our GHG emissions monitoring system to capture actual data directly
from operational teams and leading to improved data quality. In addition, we
have also optimised the emission factors used to calculate the emissions
impact of certain activities. For more information on how we calculate our
emissions, please see page 91.
Analysis of our GHG emissions inventory shows that the majority of our
emissions continue to occur beyond our direct operations, with nearly all of our
carbon footprint attributed to Scope 3 emissions. Decarbonise Our Value ChainINTRODUCTION
PL A NE T:
Collective
ResiliencePROCESS GOVERNANCE ANNEX
PEOPLEDecarbonise
Our Value
ChainSource
Responsible
Materials Protect
Nature and
Biodiversity
2024 SUSTAINABILITY AND
SOCIAL IMPACT REPORT46 Our Climate
Risks and
Impact

===== PAGE 47 =====
GHG Emissions
Category Description Base year:
2023
from base
year
Scope 1 Fossil fuel
combustion
emissions1,446 2,809 94.3%
Fugitive emissions 5,107* 1,407 -72.4%
Scope 2 Market-based
emissions25,788 26,695 3.5%
Location-based
emissions91,505 121,566 32.9%
Scope 1 + Scope 2
(market-based emissions)32,341 30,911 -4.4%
Scope 3
(under our near-term SBTi targets36) 18,122,772 20,443,652 12.8%
Scope 3 21,260,511 26,170,529 23.1%
Total Scope 1 + Scope 2 + Scope 3
GHG Emissions
(under our near-term SBTi targets) 18,155,113 20,474,563 12.8%
Total Scope 1 + Scope 2 + Scope 3
GHG Emissions21,292,851 26,201,440 23.1%
36 Comprises GHG Protocol Scope 3, Categories 1, 3, 4, 5 and 12.Decarbonise Our Value Chain
Scope 3 Emissions (Split by Category)
Category Description Base year:
2023*
from base
year
Under our SBTi target s
Category 1: Purchased Goods and
ServicesSupply chain emissions of SHEIN-branded products and
consumables in operations; purchased data services10,209,730 11,201,419 9.7%
Category 3: Fuel and Energy-Related
Activities^Fuels and energy purchased by SHEIN, not accounted for in
Scope 1 or 28,940 18,412 106.0%
Category 4: Upstream Transportation
and DistributionTransportation of products to and between SHEIN facilities
and to customers, and of returns7,494,973* 8,519,829 13.7%
Category 5: Waste Generated in
OperationsIndustrial waste generated in SHEIN-operated warehouses 6,045 8,322 37.7%
Category 11: Use of Sold Products^ Direct energy consumption during use of SHEIN products 2,404,530 4,992,844 107.6%
Category 11: Use of Sold Products^ Indirect energy consumption during use of SHEIN products 634,018 673,837 6.3%
Category 12: End-of-Life Treatment
of Sold Products^Disposal and treatment of SHEIN-branded products at
end-of-life403,085 695,669 72.6%
Not included under our SBTi targets
Category 2: Capital Goods Tangible and intangible assets purchased 75,847 33,950 -55.2%
Category 6: Business Travel Transportation of employees to business-related activities 6,272* 9,304 48.3%
Category 7: Employee Commuting^ Transportation of employees between their homes and
workplace8,075 12,273 52.0%
Category 8: Upstream Leased
Assets^Assets that are leased by SHEIN, but not owned, for use in
its operations8,996 4,669 -48.1%
Note: Categories 9, 10, 13, and 14 have been excluded from disclosure as no activities with relevant climate impact have been identified to date. These categories are periodically
reviewed to assess the potential emergence of relevant emissions. Category 15 emissions are currently being refined as part of our ongoing efforts to enhance methodological
robustness. We are working with third-party experts to refine our approach and ensure alignment with industry best practices.
* In 2024, we updated our emission calculation methodology which has led to recalculations of our historical emissions. Please see page 91 for our GHG accounting scope and
methodology.
^ These emissions are being reported for the first time in 2024.INTRODUCTION
PL A NE T:
Collective
ResiliencePROCESS GOVERNANCE ANNEX
PEOPLEDecarbonise
Our Value
ChainSource
Responsible
Materials Protect
Nature and
Biodiversity
2024 SUSTAINABILITY AND
SOCIAL IMPACT REPORT47 Our Climate
Risks and
Impact

===== PAGE 48 =====
Our Decarbonisation Roadmap
In 2024, with the support of Anthesis Group, we developed a decarbonisation
roadmap to guide our progress towards our near- and long-term emissions
reduction targets. Through this process, we identified priority decarbonisation
actions, focusing on areas with potential for greater emissions reduction
impact, and evaluated them based on their technical, operational, and financial
feasibility. This assessment considered SHEIN’s business activities and
future growth plans, current and projected market availability of solutions, and
the evolving landscape and impact of global and national decarbonisation
commitments and regulations, among other factors. The emissions reduction
impact and feasibility analyses were conducted on a best-efforts basis using
the information available at the time of the study, and may require periodic
updates to account for changes in technological advances, business priorities,
legislation or other national decarbonisation commitments, and industry
decarbonisation efforts.
Our priority actions aim to reduce: (1) direct emissions within own operations,
i.e. from SHEIN-operated offices and warehouses37, and emissions from
our electricity purchases and (2) indirect emissions across our entire value
chain beyond our own operations, which depend on our collaboration with our
suppliers and other value chain partners.
Across these priority actions, we implemented several key initiatives in 2024
that led to estimated emissions reductions of 16,582 metric tons of CO₂e
across Scope 1 and Scope 2, as well as 867,721 metric tons of CO₂e for Scope
3, compared to estimated emissions reductions of 556,664 metric tons of
CO₂e in 2023 across Scopes 1 to 3.
37 This refers to all facilities under direct management of SHEIN globally, i.e. SHEIN-operated facilities.
38 This includes specific facilities where we were unable to track electricity consumption, for which the electricity consumption of other similar facilities was used as a proxy.
39 The EACs procured comprise International Renewable Energy Certificates (I-RECs), Renewable Energy Certificates (RECs), and Guarantees of Origin (GOs).
40 These certificates can also only be tracked and redeemed, retired, or cancelled by or on behalf of SHEIN.
41 Examples of such measures include switching to more energy-efficient lightbulbs as well as the implementation of timed lighting and air conditioning systems.Scope 1 and 2 – In Our Own Operations
Our Scope 1 and 2 emissions are mainly linked to electricity usage in SHEIN-
operated offices, warehouses, and logistics centres. In 2024, SHEIN’s total
electricity consumption across our globally managed operations was 243,340
MWh38, which was a 47% increase from 165,206 MWh in 2023.
To reduce our Scope 1 and 2 emissions, we are focusing on the following
priority actions:
1. Transition to Renewable Energy
Source 100% of the electricity used in operations directly managed by SHEIN
from renewable sources by 2030. To do so, we will increase on-site electricity
production through on-site solar photovoltaic installations at SHEIN-operated
offices, warehouses, and other facilities, and the purchase of high-integrity
Energy Attribute Certificates (EACs).39 Where we procure EACs, we ensure
that renewable energy from the EACs obtained is generated in the same
market boundary as the consuming facility.40
2024 Progress:
• 76% of the electricity purchased for our own operations was derived from
renewable sources, up from 72% in 2023. This includes 170,200 MWh
from EACs. We also increased our on-site electricity production from
solar energy, with 56.3 MW of capacity coming from solar photovoltaic
installations installed or under installation across 10 of our facilities – a 29%
increase in capacity compared to 2023. In 2024, we consumed 15,105
MWh of solar energy, corresponding to an estimated reduction of 8,106
metric tons of CO₂e.2. Improve Energy Efficiency
Refine our energy consumption monitoring and implement measures to
optimise energy consumption across SHEIN-managed offices, warehouses,
and other facilities globally.
2024 Progress:
• We implemented energy efficiency measures41 across 23 SHEIN-operated
facilities in China, that are estimated to reduce approximately 23,000 MWh
of electricity use annually, corresponding to over 13,000 metric tons of CO₂e
annually. The estimated CO₂e reduction for 2024 was 5,820 metric tons.
3. Phase out Fossil Fuels and Reduce Fugitive Emissions
Gradually eliminate the use of fossil fuels, such as natural gas, and fuel-
powered vehicles and equipment in our own operations by transitioning to
electric vehicles for owned business vehicles and equipment, such as forklifts.
We also seek to reduce fugitive emissions, for instance, by switching to fire
suppression systems with a lower global warming potential.
2024 Progress:
• Since 2023, we have been progressively replacing traditional
heptafluoropropane fire extinguishers with IG-541 or dry powder
extinguishers, which have 99% lower emissions. In 2024, we replaced
nine sets across nine facilities, corresponding to an estimated reduction of
2,656 metric tons of CO₂e.Decarbonise Our Value ChainINTRODUCTION
PL A NE T:
Collective
ResiliencePROCESS GOVERNANCE ANNEX
PEOPLEDecarbonise
Our Value
ChainSource
Responsible
Materials Protect
Nature and
Biodiversity
2024 SUSTAINABILITY AND
SOCIAL IMPACT REPORT48 Our Climate
Risks and
Impact

===== PAGE 49 =====
• Intelligent energy management systems: By deploying advanced
energy management systems and leveraging smart meters for automatic
and precise electricity data collection, this system acts as a ‘smart
housekeeper’, providing real-time insights into energy consumption across
warehouse operations. With data analytics capabilities, it detects and flags
abnormal fluctuations in electricity usage, allowing staff to quickly respond
to and investigate the issue, thereby effectively mitigating safety hazards
and inadvertent energy waste.
• Energy-saving air conditioning systems: Older single-functional
and energy-intensive cooling units were replaced with newer models
equipped with intelligent energy-saving systems that dynamically adjust
the water valve opening and air supply fan frequency based on return air
temperature, ensuring a constant and comfortable indoor temperature
while significantly reducing energy consumption. Intelligent control
technology also allows for automatic and precise adjustments of operating
frequencies based on preset load and unload temperature thresholds.
A study conducted on employee comfort and energy consumption has
led to the development of operational rules, whereby air conditioning is
turned on only when certain environmental conditions are met. In addition
to energy savings from the cooling process, the installation of these
intelligent air conditioning systems also provides operational cost savings.
• More energy-efficient lighting: The warehouse progressively replaced
existing 18W light bulbs (which were found to have relatively short
lifespans of one year) with longer-life span 9W light bulbs, which could
last up to four years – this not only reduced electricity usage but also the
frequency of bulb replacements, resulting in less waste.
• More energy-efficient air handling units: Each warehouse building has
been equipped with approximately three air handling units. Previously,
the older units operated with fixed settings – only providing basic on/off
functionality, with the water valve locked at 100% open, unable to adjust
to variations in return air temperature. The newly implemented energy-
saving system enables dynamic adjustments to both the fan speed and
water valve opening, based on real-time return air temperature, thereby
improving energy efficiency.
Through the above actions, SHEIN’s Foshan warehouse achieved a significant
reduction in energy consumption compared to the same period last year, with
an estimated annual electricity savings of 5.5% (1,121.9 MWh), providing a
strong model for the transition of other SHEIN-operated warehouses.Transitioning Towards Lower-Impact Warehouses
In 2024, SHEIN rolled out a series of effective energy-saving actions for one of our warehouses in Foshan, China, which included:
Decarbonise Our Value Chain
Intelligent energy management systems enable our warehouse staff to track energy
consumption, mitigate safety hazards, and reduce inadvertent energy waste.
The use of more energy-efficient lighting helps to reduce electricity consumption
and the frequency of bulb replacements at our warehouses.INTRODUCTION
PL A NE T:
Collective
ResiliencePROCESS GOVERNANCE ANNEX
PEOPLEDecarbonise
Our Value
ChainSource
Responsible
Materials Protect
Nature and
Biodiversity
2024 SUSTAINABILITY AND
SOCIAL IMPACT REPORT49 Our Climate
Risks and
Impact

===== PAGE 50 =====
Scope 3 – In Our Value Chain
To achieve the most impact, we are primarily focused on reducing emissions in
areas where we have the largest emissions, i.e. Category 1 (Purchased Goods
and Services) and Category 4 (Upstream Transportation and Distribution),
which accounted for approximately 96% of our emissions under our near-term
targets in 2024.
Category 1 – Making Our Products
Across the life cycle of our products, the largest proportion of emissions can
be attributed to the production phase—during raw material production, fabric
and garment production, and packaging production. Our actions to reduce this
category of emissions are as follows:
1. Minimise the Use of Virgin Materials and Transition to Lower-Impact
Alternatives
By reducing the amount of virgin materials used in garment and packaging
production and switching to alternatives with lower carbon footprints
than conventional or status quo options, we can decrease the emissions
associated with our product manufacturing. We have set ourselves targets
to transition towards lower-impact materials such as recycled polyester,
and to increase the proportion of recycled materials used in our product
and delivery packaging.
2024 Progress:
For our materials transition progress in 2024, please see page 55.2. Promote Lower-Impact Manufacturing Processes
We firmly believe in supporting our suppliers along their decarbonisation
journeys, which will also help mitigate our Scope 3 emissions. By engaging
with our network of SHEIN-branded product suppliers, this opens up
opportunities for collaboration and education on decarbonisation efforts.
Primarily, we focus on (1) encouraging our suppliers to transition to
renewable energy, and (2) working with our suppliers to improve their
manufacturing processes to reduce their carbon footprint.
2024 Progress:
• We continued to promote the adoption of rooftop solar energy in our supply
chain by connecting suppliers with third-party expert consultants who
support the suppliers in developing custom solar PV installation plans, and
approximately 114 MW of solar capacity was installed or under installation
across 114 supplier sites. During the year, these supplier factories
consumed 53,583 MWh of solar energy, resulting in an estimated reduction
of 28,752 metric tons of CO₂e.42
• We focused on identifying opportunities for fabric production factories to
enhance resource efficiency. The implementation of such measures43,
rolled out across eight fabric production factories, led to estimated annual
savings of 10,870 MWh of electricity, 194,000 m³ of natural gas and 73,600
tonnes of steam, equivalent to an 8.1% reduction in carbon emissions or
36,000 metric tons of CO₂e annually.
• We continued to promote and expand the adoption of energy-saving
practices across our supplier network. Nearly 80 of our suppliers have
adopted measures44 in line with our standardised energy efficiency
guidelines, resulting in an estimated 2,302 MWh of electricity saved
annually, corresponding to a reduction in carbon emissions of
approximately 1,391 metric tons of CO₂e annually.
42 The photovoltaic electricity usage data was collected over the course of the projects, reflecting 12 months of consumption at the supplier’s factory. The data covers two periods: the 12 months ending October 2024 and the 12 months ending December 2024.
43 Examples of these measures include the installation of energy-saving and water-saving dyeing machines, introducing differentiated temperature controls for the stenter tail boxes, and upgrading the automatic weighing and conveying system for dyes and chemicals.
44 Examples of such measures include insulation of steam pipes, use of motion-sensor lights in non-operational areas, energy-saving steam traps, replacement of outdated steam traps, zoning control of lighting switches, addition of signage, and replacement of traditional lamps with energy-saving lights.
Decarbonise Our Value ChainINTRODUCTION
PL A NE T:
Collective
ResiliencePROCESS GOVERNANCE ANNEX
PEOPLEDecarbonise
Our Value
ChainSource
Responsible
Materials Protect
Nature and
Biodiversity
2024 SUSTAINABILITY AND
SOCIAL IMPACT REPORT50 Our Climate
Risks and
Impact

===== PAGE 51 =====
Category 4 – Transporting Our Products
Efficient transportation and distribution of our products is critical to our
business to ensure that our products reach our customers on time. Like many
online retailers, a significant portion of our emissions can be attributed to the
transportation and distribution of our products to customers. To reduce our
transportation and distribution emissions, we will focus on the following actions:
1. Reduce Transportation Distances
This includes optimising our global logistics network and route planning
to promote the greater use of land, sea, or multimodal routes, thereby
reducing the need for air freight. In addition, we are working to produce,
package, and ship closer to our customers, with the aim of lowering
emissions, delivery times, and shipping costs.
2024 Progress:
• By optimising air routes and switching to trucking for shorter routes, we
were able to optimise air freight, and increase the use of sea freight and
trucking. This shift resulted in an estimated reduction of approximately
502,273 metric tons of CO₂e. 2. Improve Transport Efficiency
In transporting our products, we seek to do so with a smaller carbon
footprint, including by using of lower-emission transport alternatives,
such as electric or hybrid vehicles, and by improving load and packaging
efficiency, which maximises single-load capacity and reduces the number
of loads required.
2024 Progress:
• We continued to expand the use of lower-emission transport alternatives,
such as low-fuel-consumption vehicles, resulting in 14,151 metric tons of
CO₂e saved.
• To improve packaging efficiency, we reviewed the size, design, and
materials used for transportation packaging during air freight, including
switching paper boxes to recycled burlap bags, resulting in 143,924 metric
tons of CO₂e saved.
• We also worked with our logistics providers to eliminate the need for
cardboard pallets in cargo loading for road transport, resulting in 7,826
metric tons of CO₂e saved.
Charging Ahead with
Electrification
In 2024, in line with efforts to decarbonise our logistics network, SHEIN
worked with our logistics partners, to develop a new 9.6-metre electric
vehicle (EV) solution to replace conventional diesel trucks. The new EV
model optimises energy efficiency, modular integration, and human-
machine interfaces to provide a safe and reliable driving experience.
Battery solutions have also been optimised for both performance and
safety.
SHEIN plans to deploy more than 130 of these new EVs for warehousing
and logistics operations within China in 2025. This is estimated to be able
to achieve an annual reduction of nearly 10,000 metric tons of CO₂e and
cost savings of 20% to 30%, compared to traditional diesel trucks.
We look forward to continuing to work with more partners to explore how
to best leverage cutting-edge technologies, such as hydrogen-powered
heavy-duty trucks or autonomous vehicles, to support the transition to a
greener logistics network.
The 2024 initiatives aimed at managing our transportation and distribution
emissions have resulted in an estimated total carbon reduction of
668,800
metric tons of CO2e,
as certified by the independent verification agency, SGS,
in accordance with ISO 14064 – 2. Decarbonise Our Value Chain
We reviewed the size, design, and materials used in transportation packaging for air
freight, optimising volumes transported per flight.INTRODUCTION
PL A NE T:
Collective
ResiliencePROCESS GOVERNANCE ANNEX
PEOPLEDecarbonise
Our Value
ChainSource
Responsible
Materials Protect
Nature and
Biodiversity
2024 SUSTAINABILITY AND
SOCIAL IMPACT REPORT51 Our Climate
Risks and
Impact

===== PAGE 52 =====
Other Opportunities
Beyond focusing on areas where most of our emissions lie, our decarbonisation
roadmap also includes the following actions:
1. Minimise and Manage Our Waste:
Within our own operations, we are working to minimise waste by creating
closed-loop systems that recycle resources back into the system,
reducing the need for new resources.
We have updated our SHEIN Industrial Waste Management Guidelines,
which apply to all sites under our direct management, including offices,
distribution warehouses, and SHEIN’s Centre of Innovation for Garment
Manufacturing (CIGM). These guidelines require the classification,
recycling, weighing, and record-keeping of all industrial waste, as well as
the documentation of downstream recycling operations and the redirection
of all non-recyclable waste towards energy recovery or non-hazardous
treatment processes. In addition, the guidelines set out requirements and
procedures for the treatment and management of industrial waste at each
stage of the process.
2024 Progress:
In 2024, we generated 52,128 metric tons of industrial waste across our own
operations.45 Building on last year’s industrial waste-recycling pilots, we
developed standardised waste recycling and management measures, which
were implemented across all 33 SHEIN-operated warehouses in China and
the CIGM in 2024, resulting in an overall recycling rate of 95%.46
2. Promote Circularity Among Our Customers:
Our customers play a critical role in extending the use of our products for
as long as possible. To encourage our customers to engage in circular
behaviour, we have launched initiatives such as SHEIN Exchange, a peer-
to-peer resale platform, and continue to promote customer engagement
content to raise awareness about the importance of the circular transition
(see page 65 for more details).
45 All warehouses in China and the CIGM.
46 Based on weight of waste.Zero Waste to Landfill
Our commitment to reducing as much of our generated waste as
possible is exemplified in our efforts to ensure that more SHEIN-
operated facilities are certified Zero Waste to Landfill, which
means that almost all waste is reduced, reused, recycled, or
converted into energy.
In 2024, we achieved Zero Waste to Landfill Management System
certification by TÜV Rheinland for our CIGM and four SHEIN-
operated warehouses in China, bringing the total number of
certified SHEIN-operated facilities to seven.
Decarbonise Our Value Chain
Category Weight (t) Proportion of
total industrial
wasteDisposal
Cardboard
and paper38,183.5 73.2% Recycling
Plastic
(Polypropylene,
Polyethylene,
Expanded
Polyethylene,
PET bottles)11,084.0 21.3% Recycling
Textile waste
(Recycled)398.1 0.8% Recycling
Textile waste
(Reused)223.9 0.4% Reuse
Others 7.7 0.0% Reuse
Energy
recovery from
waste2,230.8 4.3% Waste-to-energyIndustrial Waste Management Across Own Operations in 2024INTRODUCTION
PL A NE T:
Collective
ResiliencePROCESS GOVERNANCE ANNEX
PEOPLEDecarbonise
Our Value
ChainSource
Responsible
Materials Protect
Nature and
Biodiversity
2024 SUSTAINABILITY AND
SOCIAL IMPACT REPORT52 Our Climate
Risks and
Impact

===== PAGE 53 =====
Summary of Decarbonisation Initiatives and Emissions Reductions in 2024
Decarbonisation initiatives Key actions 2024 emissions reduction
(metric tons of CO2e)
Scope 1 & 2 Emissions: Across self-operated facilities
Scope 1: Reduction in fugitive emissions • Replaced nine sets of traditional heptafluoropropane fire extinguishers with IG-541 sets across nine facilities. 2,656
Scope 2: Rooftop solar at sites • 56.3 MW of capacity installed or under installation across 10 facilities, consuming 15,105 MWh of electricity. 8,106
Scope 2: Energy efficiency improvements • Implemented energy efficiency improvement measures across 23 facilities in 2024. 5,820
Scope 3 Emissions: Across value chain
Category 1:
Decarbonisation measures across purchased goods and services• Implemented initiatives to reduce carbon emissions from suppliers and manufacturing processes.
• Increased the proportion of recycled materials used in product and delivery packaging.198,921
Category 4:
Green logistics and transportation measures• Optimised air routes and switched to trucking for shorter routes.
• Used lower-emission transport alternatives, like fuel-efficient vehicles.
• Enhanced packaging efficiency and removed cardboard pallets in road transport.668,800Decarbonise Our Value ChainINTRODUCTION
PL A NE T:
Collective
ResiliencePROCESS GOVERNANCE ANNEX
PEOPLEDecarbonise
Our Value
ChainSource
Responsible
Materials Protect
Nature and
Biodiversity
2024 SUSTAINABILITY AND
SOCIAL IMPACT REPORT53 Our Climate
Risks and
Impact

===== PAGE 54 =====
SHEIN’s decarbonisation strategy considers the entire life cycle of a SHEIN product and
identifies carbon reduction opportunities at every stage.
SHEIN’s
Operations
• Improve energy
efficiency
• Scale renewable
energy
• Phase out fossil
fuels and high
global warming
potential resources
• Minimise and
manage wasteManufacturing
• Promote adoption
of renewable
energy and
resource efficiency
measuresTransportation
• Reduce distances
travelled
• Improve transport
efficiencyUse of Product
• Encourage
engagement with
circularityEnd of Life
• Promote
responsible
management of
productsOur Decarbonisation Journey Ahead
As we look towards our net-zero target, we recognise the need not only to
scale these priority actions across our entire value chain but also to collaborate
with partners to advance technological innovations and systemic change.
To approach net-zero, we seek to focus on longer-term investments that can
support the commercial availability of textile-to-textile recycled materials, more
carbon-efficient transportation modes, greater adoption of circular business
models, and the exploration of diversified carbon removal solutions.
We believe that there is great potential for SHEIN to catalyse collective action
across our ecosystem, including with our suppliers and value chain partners.
We are continuing to work on our climate transition plan towards our near-term
and long-term emissions reduction targets. Through transparent and open
dialogue, collaborative partnerships, and an industry-wide commitment, we
believe that we can leverage innovation to develop scalable and sustainable
solutions and have an outsized impact, while remaining agile and resilient in
the face of uncertainties and challenges we meet, as we progress on the road
to net-zero. Material
Sourcing
• Transition to
preferred materials
with lower
environmental
impact than
conventional or
status quo options.
Decarbonise Our Value ChainINTRODUCTION
PL A NE T:
Collective
ResiliencePROCESS GOVERNANCE ANNEX
PEOPLEDecarbonise
Our Value
ChainSource
Responsible
Materials Protect
Nature and
Biodiversity
2024 SUSTAINABILITY AND
SOCIAL IMPACT REPORT54 Our Climate
Risks and
Impact

===== PAGE 55 =====
Sourcing responsible materials involves selecting materials for
our products that have a lower environmental impact, in terms of
their carbon, water, land use, and chemical footprints, while also
meeting performance and quality requirements. We are dedicated
to increasing our use of materials that fulfil these dual objectives
For more information on our processes, systems, and standards for product
quality and safety, please see page 74.
Our Preferred Materials Approach
SHEIN is a member of Textile Exchange, a global non-profit organisation
driving beneficial impacts on climate and nature across the fashion, textile,
and apparel industry. We use their guidance in implementing our preferred
materials strategy, to select materials with improved environmental and/or
social sustainability outcomes and impact.
Our preferred materials strategy focuses on two key objectives:
1. Minimising the use of virgin materials: We seek to reduce our use of virgin
materials by sourcing recycled alternatives with a lower environmental
impact compared to conventional or status quo options, setting ourselves
the following targets:
a. Transition 31% of polyester used in SHEIN-branded products to
recycled polyester by 2030.
b. Ensure all packaging sourced for SHEIN-branded products contains
50% preferred materials by 2030.47
2. Conservation-friendly sourcing: We work to avoid sourcing materials
from areas of high conservation value. As signatories of the CanopyStyle
and Pack4Good initiatives led by Canopy, a non-profit organisation
dedicated to protecting the world’s forests, biodiversity, and climate, we
have committed to transitioning our sourcing of man-made cellulosic fibres
(MMCFs) and paper-based packaging for SHEIN-branded products away
from Ancient and Endangered Forests by 2025.SHEIN’s Materials Portfolio48
2023 2024
Polyester 75.7% 81.5%
Cotton 9.9% 6.7%
Viscose 8.0% 4.6%
Spandex 3.6% 3.7%
Polyamide 2.4% 3.3%
Other fibre categories (including linen, acrylic,
and metallics)0.3% 0.2%
47 Preferred materials used for packaging are recycled PE and paper packaging not sourced from Ancient and Endangered Forests (for more information on Ancient and Endangered Forests, please refer to
Canopy’s Forest Mapper ).
48 This chart provides the breakdown by weight of fibres which constitute the textiles designated by SHEIN for use by contract manufacturers.Polyester
Globally, polyester continues to dominate the fibre market, and it similarly forms
a significant proportion of our materials portfolio. Polyester has favourable
attributes, such as high strength and durability, wrinkle resistance, quick-dry
performance, and price affordability. However, we recognise the environmental
challenges associated with virgin fossil-based polyester. This is why the transition
to recycled polyester is an important part of our evoluSHEIN roadmap.
The vast majority of recycled polyester materials available today are made
from post-consumer PET bottles. SHEIN believes that the more sustainable
pathway for recycled polyester is to support the scaling of recycled polyester
made from textile waste, in order to create a truly closed-loop alternative. We
are working hard to ramp up textile-to-textile recycling capacities to accelerate
this transition, in collaboration with ecosystem partners. See page 70 for our
efforts in textile-to-textile recycled polyester.
In 2024, 6.7% of polyester directly sourced for SHEIN-branded products was
recycled polyester, of which 12.1% was textile-to-textile recycled polyester.
We will continue working towards our target to transition at least 31% of the
polyester used in SHEIN-branded products to recycled polyester by 2030,
with a particular focus on recycled polyester made from textile waste.Man-Made Cellulosic Fibres
MMCFs such as viscose, modal, lyocell, and acetate are made from
the extraction of wood pulp or “cellulose” from trees, which poses risks
of deforestation and forest exploitation if not sourced responsibly. As a
CanopyStyle signatory, SHEIN is committed to ensuring that, by 2025, all
directly sourced viscose used in SHEIN-branded products comes from
producers that do not use wood from Ancient and Endangered Forests.
In line with these commitments, SHEIN has been increasing our use of viscose
that has a low risk of being sourced from Ancient and Endangered Forests,
by requiring all MMCFs in fabrics utilised for SHEIN-branded products to be
sourced from producers that have achieved a ‘Green Shirt’ assessment in
Canopy’s annual Hot Button Report.
In 2024, 72.5% of viscose fabrics directly sourced for SHEIN-branded
products were from ‘Green Shirt’ rated producers, making continued progress
from over 60% in 2023.
For example, we continued to use Lenzing TENCEL™ Modal fabrics, which
are made from wood sourced from controlled or certified origins meeting FSC
or Programme for the Endorsement of Forest Certification (PEFC) standards,
following the stringent guidelines of the Lenzing Wood and Pulp Policy. In its
2024 ranking, Canopy recognised Lenzing for its commitment to protecting
Ancient and Endangered Forests; Lenzing obtained a “dark green shirt” rating
from Canopy’s Hot Button Report, confirming its leading role in the areas of
sustainability and responsible wood and pulp sourcing.
In addition, we are working to increase our use of lower-impact Next Gen
MMCF alternatives, such as those made using waste textiles or agricultural
residues in place of traditional wood-based feedstock, to reduce the sourcing
dependence on forest ecosystems.
Source Responsible Materials
Note: Figures may not add up to 100% due to rounding.INTRODUCTION
PL A NE T:
Collective
ResiliencePROCESS GOVERNANCE ANNEX
PEOPLEDecarbonise
Our Value
ChainSource
Responsible
Materials Protect
Nature and
Biodiversity
2024 SUSTAINABILITY AND
SOCIAL IMPACT REPORT55 Our Climate
Risks and
Impact

===== PAGE 56 =====
received a “dark green shirt” rating from Canopy’s Hot Button Report, to
co-develop fabrics utilising a Next Gen MMCF made from a 50-50 blend of
recycled cotton waste and FSC-certified wood pulp, Regracell®. Through this
collaboration, SHEIN also involved our other ecosystem partners, such as
our SHEIN X designers, who provided feedback on material requirements
Anitta, which generated greater visibility for the use and development of this
innovative MMCF.
Cotton
Cotton is one of the most widely used materials, since it is strong, breathable,
and natural. However, conventional cotton production can be chemically
intensive and pollutive due to the pesticides and fertilisers that may be used
to improve yield. In 2024, we piloted collections which incorporated denim
containing recycled cotton49, and organic cotton for kidswear.
Rescued Materials
The fashion industry has traditionally been known for overstocking and
deadstock, left unused in warehouses at the end of the season. Through
our partnership with Aloqia, a Software as a Service (SaaS) platform for
optimising and reducing excess inventory (formerly Queen of Raw), we were
able to incorporate surplus materials from their ecosystem into our products,
rescuing high-quality existing materials and reducing the need for new
resources. For more information on our efforts to utilise rescued materials,
please see page 71 .
Packaging
We are committed to achieving our goal of ensuring that all packaging sourced
for SHEIN-branded products contains at least 50% preferred materials, such
as recycled PE for plastic packaging or paper not sourced from Ancient and
Endangered Forests for paper packaging, by 2030.
Since 2022, we have focused on transitioning our express delivery bags and
garment polybags for SHEIN-branded products to incorporate more recycled
materials. In 2024, all express delivery bags used in packages shipped to
Europe comprised 50% Global Recycled Standard (GRS)-certified recycled
PE. SHEIN is also starting to roll this out in other markets in the Middle East,
the USA, and Southeast Asia. In total, 50.1% of all express delivery bags for
packages shipped by SHEIN in 2024 were made of at least 50% recycled
PE. We are also working to transition our plastic garment polybags to 100%
GRS-certified recycled PE, progressively across SHEIN brands, with over 3%
of all garment polybags procured for SHEIN brands now made of 100% GRS-
certified recycled PE. Our use of recycled PE in plastic packaging in 2024 is
estimated to have avoided the use of 5,695 tonnes of virgin plastic, resulting in
estimated savings of 16,373 metric tons of CO₂e.In 2024, we continued to find new ways to consume less plastic by optimising
the thickness and design of our express delivery and garment polybags,
resulting in a decrease in average packaging weight of 4.37g and 0.99g per bag
respectively, which is estimated to have avoided 1,797 tonnes of virgin plastic,
and 6,405 metric tons of CO₂e.
Additionally, SHEIN ensures that our packaging is adequately labelled to
help customers dispose of it responsibly in alignment with the regulatory
requirements of each country we operate in. For instance, all packaging bags
indicate the type of plastic used to support waste sorting efforts, and have
printed logos to support country-specific recycling initiatives, such as the French
Triman logo, the Spanish Green Dot, and the Italian environmental label.
Overall, the proportion of packaging procured that contained at least 50%
preferred materials increased to 17.0% in 2024 from 16.2% in 2023.
49 Individual products in these collections comprised at least 30% recycled cotton.Source Responsible MaterialsINTRODUCTION
PL A NE T:
Collective
ResiliencePROCESS GOVERNANCE ANNEX
PEOPLEDecarbonise
Our Value
ChainSource
Responsible
Materials Protect
Nature and
Biodiversity
2024 SUSTAINABILITY AND
SOCIAL IMPACT REPORT56 Our Climate
Risks and
Impact

===== PAGE 57 =====
practices within their existing manufacturing and design processes:
1. evoluSHEIN by Design products must contain at least 30% preferred
materials, such as recycled polyester, forest-safe viscose, or rescued
deadstock.
2. evoluSHEIN by Design products must be manufactured by suppliers who
have received an above-average rating on their SRS audit conducted by
an accredited third party (i.e. A or B on our current grading scale) or hold
certification to an independent standard that includes social compliance
criteria (e.g. SA8000, GRS).
3. evoluSHEIN by Design products must be shipped in packaging comprising
at least 50% preferred materials, such as recycled PE.
SHEIN has committed to sourcing 50% of SHEIN-branded products through
our evoluSHEIN by Design initiative by 2030. In 2024, around 8.3% of SHEIN-
collections, which saw the participation of suppliers, in-house designers,
and SHEIN X designers, to learn about and share feedback on incorporating
preferred materials into design; circular design principles; meeting traceability
and quality requirements; and responsible manufacturing guidelines:
• SHEIN X Rescued: A 30-piece evoluSHEIN by Design collection by
through Aloqia’s platform, all meeting the evoluSHEIN by Design criteria.
Designers were handpicked based on their interest in designing fashion
products that leverage circular design principles.
• evoluSHEIN x Anitta: A 75-piece evoluSHEIN by Design collection by
eight SHEIN X designers from around the globe (Brazil, Mexico, Spain, the
We are cognisant of the rapid pace of innovation and change in sustainable
textiles. To stay ahead of the curve, we are undertaking efforts to help our
value chain understand and effectively work with preferred materials. For
example, we conducted a survey among our designers to understand their
material preferences and requirements, thereby better informing our sourcing
of preferred materials. We have also conducted workshops and training for
both SHEIN’s own team of designers and SHEIN X designers on preferred
materials and circular design; and for our suppliers, to increase awareness
about preferred materials, quality and traceability requirements, and
manufacturing guidelines.
Photo credit: Madison McGaw/BFA.comSource Responsible Materials INTRODUCTION
PL A NE T:
Collective
ResiliencePROCESS GOVERNANCE ANNEX
PEOPLEDecarbonise
Our Value
ChainSource
Responsible
Materials Protect
Nature and
Biodiversity
2024 SUSTAINABILITY AND
SOCIAL IMPACT REPORT57 Our Climate
Risks and
Impact

===== PAGE 58 =====
and people. As we strive to build our expertise, we are working to improve
our whole-of-value-chain coordination and collaborating with external
organisations, including NGOs, public authorities, and certification agencies,
to better inform our understanding and tap on their experience.
At SHEIN, we adopt a two-pronged approach towards material traceability,
Our suppliers are required to reconstruct their physical supply chain in digital
form, collecting chain of custody documentation, test reports, and transaction
certificates at each processing stage. This enables us to track material flow and
verify the sources of materials throughout the garment manufacturing process.
Second, to help ensure the efficacy of our tracing mechanisms, we leverage
third-party verification testing, conducting spot checks on yarn, fabrics, and
garments recorded as comprising preferred materials on TMS to verify the
origin, quality, and traceability of preferred materials.
This helps us to track the sourcing of our preferred materials, such as recycled
polyester and forest-safe viscose. Product Life Cycle Assessments
We believe it is important to have a strong understanding of the impacts of
the materials in our portfolio to validate our materials strategy. In 2024, we
commissioned Bureau Veritas to conduct an independent verification of the life
cycle (cradle-to-grave) product carbon footprint for a representative sample of
garments made from various material types. This sample included items made with
conventional materials, as well as comparable garments made with our preferred
material types. By focusing on these representative products, we aimed to gain data-
driven insights into their comparative carbon impacts.
Specifically, we compared recycled polyester with virgin polyester, recycled and
organic cotton with virgin cotton, and Lenzing TENCELTM Modal with conventional
modal fibres. Our life cycle assessment results were derived from validated
sample data to ensure accuracy. The study calculated and compared the product
carbon footprint for these comparative garments across the stages of raw material
acquisition, raw material transportation, core production, downstream product
transportation, product use, and product disposal.
Control
MaterialPreferred
MaterialGarment Type
Compared% difference in product
life cycle carbon footprint
(compared to the
conventional equivalent)
Polyester Recycled polyester Women’s
dresses-11.0%
Cotton Organic cotton Infants’ onesies -22.7%
Recycled cotton Women’s jeans -5.7%
Modal Lenzing TENCELTM
ModalWomen’s sports
tops-17.87%
The results affirmed that garments made of our preferred materials generated
significantly less carbon emissions across the entire product life cycle compared to
garments made of conventional materials.
Such studies help to deepen our understanding of the comparative impacts of our
products and support our focus on these preferred materials. Additionally, they
enhance our carbon accounting methodology by incorporating verified carbon
footprint data from our actual product value chains, as opposed to reference data
sourced from industry databases. Preparing for the
Union, new regulations will require textile products to feature a
Digital Product Passport (DPP) that contains comprehensive
information about a product’s origins, materials, environmental
impact, care, repair, and disposal instructions.
In 2024, SHEIN began preparations for the DPP, participating in
DPP pilot to provide our customers with more knowledge around
SHEIN products.
Source Responsible Materials INTRODUCTION
PL A NE T:
Collective
ResiliencePROCESS GOVERNANCE ANNEX
PEOPLEDecarbonise
Our Value
ChainSource
Responsible
Materials Protect
Nature and
Biodiversity
2024 SUSTAINABILITY AND
SOCIAL IMPACT REPORT58 Our Climate
Risks and
Impact

===== PAGE 59 =====
All businesses depend on natural resources for core operations,
from energy and materials to climate stability. For SHEIN, our use
of raw materials such as cotton, wool, and cellulose from trees
has an impact on the natural planet, ecosystems, and biodiversity.
Examples of negative impacts include the use of freshwater, soil
exhaustion, land use change and degradation, the exploitation and
loss of species, and pollution.
sustainable practices and ecosystems.
Our work across the Planet and Process pillars of our evoluSHEIN roadmap
supports our ambition for the preservation of nature by:
• Avoiding and/or minimising our impact on biodiversity and
natural ecosystems.
• Supporting industry transformation to reduce impacts and dependencies
on nature.
In considering how we can support this ambition, we refer to guidance from the
Science Based Targets Network and their comprehensive AR3T framework. We also look to the high-level actions for the fashion and apparel sector
developed by Business for Nature, the World Economic Forum, and the World
Business Council for Sustainable Development, considering the unique
ways different sectors interact with biodiversity and ecosystems. Our specific
actions under each strategic prong are as follows:
Avoid
We seek to prevent potential negative impacts on nature and biodiversity in
our direct operations and along our value chain through the following actions:
1. Ensuring that Areas of High Conservation Value are Not Harmed
Forests play a key role in supporting a rich variety of rare species and native
plant communities, as well as the livelihoods of many communities. We
are CanopyStyle and Pack4Good signatories, collaborating with Canopy
to address the fashion industry’s role in deforestation and environmental
degradation. In making this commitment, we seek to transition our sourcing of
MMCFs and paper-based packaging for SHEIN-branded products away from
Ancient and Endangered Forests by 2025, and to support the acceleration of
next-generation fibre solutions. For more details on our preferred materials
strategy, please see page 55.
2. Promoting Animal Welfare
Codes and the Farm Animal Welfare Committee, namely:
1. Nutrition: Freedom from hunger or thirst by providing ready access to fresh
water and a diet to maintain full health and vigour.
2. Physical environment: Freedom from discomfort by providing an
appropriate environment, including shelter and a comfortable resting area.
3. Health: Freedom from pain, injury or disease by prevention or rapid
diagnosis and treatment.
5. Mental state: Freedom from fear and distress by ensuring conditions and
treatment which avoid mental suffering. Avoid potential negative impacts
on nature, especially in areas of
high conservation value
Support conservation and
Trade in Endangered Species and listed under any of the threatened
categories (i.e. Critically Endangered, Endangered, or Vulnerable) under
the International Union for the Conservation of Nature.
• Not use, sell, or source materials from any material derived from “exotic”
animals, including wild, rare, or not commonly domesticated animals.
promote practices that ensure proper feeding, housing, health, and handling.
• Cooperate with us to improve animal traceability from the animal’s origin
to the final product.Protect Nature and Biodiversity INTRODUCTION
PL A NE T:
Collective
ResiliencePROCESS GOVERNANCE ANNEX
PEOPLEDecarbonise
Our Value
ChainSource
Responsible
Materials Protect
Nature and
Biodiversity
2024 SUSTAINABILITY AND
SOCIAL IMPACT REPORT59 Our Climate
Risks and
Impact

===== PAGE 60 =====
3. Respecting Ecosystems
SHEIN has instituted a Manufacturing Restricted Substances List (MRSL),
which controls the use of restricted chemicals throughout the garment
manufacturing process. This helps to reduce the risk of effluent and waste
discharge containing harmful and hazardous substances that may negatively
impact ecosystems.
We also recognise that fibre fragmentation, especially during the garment
manufacturing process, can have a negative impact on discharged water
quality, and correspondingly cause environmental pollution, including
groundwater and soil pollution, which affects the broader ecosystem.
As a signatory of the Microfibre 2030 Commitment, we are committed to
actively engaging in collaborative action to understand and mitigate the
impacts of fibre fragmentation from textiles on the natural environment. We
actively contribute to TMC’s research into fibre fragmentation by submitting
our fabric test results to the Microfibre Data Portal.
In our first year, we focused on working with SGS to test the quantity of
fibre fragmentation from our polyester and recycled polyester fabrics, as
polyester comprises the majority of our materials portfolio and is a focus in
our materials transition. This first batch of results show that nearly all of our 10
tested samples – made from virgin, textile-to-textile and bottle-to-fibre recycled
polyester – tested lower than the Microfibre Data Portal average, with our
average at 0.187g/kg rate of filter change compared to the median of 0.399g/kg
as seen in TMC’s Data Portal Annual Insights report. Our results also showed
no difference in fibre fragment shedding between virgin, mechanically recycled
polyester, and chemically recycled polyester. We are working closely with TMC
to further expand on these findings and identify the factors that support much
lower fibre loss among these samples chosen.Reduce
Where impacts cannot be avoided, we strive to reduce our negative impacts
on nature and the planet. We recognise that water ecosystems support a
significant portion of biological diversity, and have identified the following
action areas as opportunities for SHEIN to contribute towards the health of
water ecosystems:
1. Reduce Water Footprint
In the fashion industry, water resources are consumed throughout the life
cycle of a garment, from the cultivation of raw materials such as cotton, to
the processing, dyeing, and treating of fabrics, to the washing and care of
garments. SHEIN is committed to the responsible use and management of
water resources across our operations and supply chain.
50 WWF (2023) WWF Risk Filter Suite version 1.0.
51 All water used was sourced from municipal supply and discharged into the sewage system, with no industrial wastewater generated.To understand our exposure to both operational and basin water-related
risks, in 2024, we evaluated how and where we use water across our own
operations and supply chains, and leveraged the World Wide Fund for Nature
(WWF) Water Risk Filter50 to assess the basin-related physical, regulatory,
and reputational water risks. The assessment is based on 2023 data from
all SHEIN-operated warehouses and our Tier 1 and 2 suppliers, which
comprise garment production, printing, dyeing, and finishing facilities, totalling
approximately 80% of SHEIN-branded products based on procurement value
in 2023.
Overall, water scarcity and drought risk for SHEIN-operated warehouses and
Tier 1 and Tier 2 suppliers were assessed as low or very low. However, high-
priority risks identified include declining water quality, flood risks, and other
extreme weather events. High-priority opportunities identified for SHEIN
include the adoption of water-saving technologies to improve our water use
efficiency and the need to strengthen our resilience to extreme climate events.
With a baseline understanding of water consumption across our value
chain, we published a company-wide Water Stewardship Policy to gauge
and implement water management improvement practices. This policy sets
out key principles and requirements for SHEIN-operated facilities, as well
as the expectations for our value chain partners, along with guidelines for
responsible water usage and management.
Our Own Operations
Within our own operations – including warehouses and offices – water
usage is minimal, primarily for the management of ancillary facilities such
as sanitation, canteens, and landscaping. As such, water usage draws from
and directly discharges into municipal water and sewage systems, and no
industrial wastewater is generated. In 2024, within our own operations, we
consumed 1,557,957 cubic metres of water.51
Protect Nature and Biodiversity INTRODUCTION
PL A NE T:
Collective
ResiliencePROCESS GOVERNANCE ANNEX
PEOPLEDecarbonise
Our Value
ChainSource
Responsible
Materials Protect
Nature and
Biodiversity
2024 SUSTAINABILITY AND
SOCIAL IMPACT REPORT60 Our Climate
Risks and
Impact

===== PAGE 61 =====
We are committed to providing all our employees with clean and safe
drinking water and sanitation facilities across the facilities we operate. In
2024, we applied WASH4WORK’s self-assessment tool52 across SHEIN-
operated warehouses in China and implemented measures to regularly
monitor the quality of drinking water, improve daily cleaning and disinfection
management, and ensure adequate sanitation facility provisions.
To enhance employee awareness of water scarcity and promote prudent
water usage, we display posters promoting water-saving habits in our own
facilities and conduct educational activities and community events for SHEIN
employees, enabling them to contribute to the responsible stewardship of
shared water resources.
Looking forward, we will continue to track and monitor our water usage within
our own operations, and establish more comprehensive guidelines for water-
saving measures to be implemented.
Our Supply Chain
In the fashion industry, wet processes such as dyeing, washing, finishing, and
printing are the most water-intensive stages in the value chain. At these stages,
since water is used for production (such as boilers and coolers), industrial
wastewater is generated and must be treated appropriately.
We also partner with our suppliers to identify and implement further water-
saving measures, such as optimising cooling water collection and reuse
systems, switching to high-efficiency water pumps, and improving water inlet
controls for wool washing machines. In 2024, through these programmes, we
helped 83 suppliers implement measures that are estimated to have saved
approximately 469,600 tonnes of water and reduced 355,500 tonnes of
wastewater generated annually.SHEIN also promotes the use of water-saving technologies such as digital
thermal transfer printing and Cool Transfer Denim Printing across our supply
chain. Read more about our waste-less innovation efforts on page 64.
Within our supply chain, we also expect our suppliers to provide workers with
sufficient clean sanitation facilities and access to potable water free of charge.
Compliance with these requirements is assessed during annual SRS audits.
Our Communities
As floods and extreme weather events have disruptive impacts on the local
communities where we operate, SHEIN has also provided philanthropic
donations to support local communities in responding to these climate
challenges, in countries such as Brazil, Poland, Spain, the UAE, and the USA.
For more information, see page 40.
regeneration of ecosystems. We support organisations which implement
ecosystem restoration projects, committing to the rehabilitation of degraded
habitats and ecosystems and the protection of biodiversity. In September
2023, SHEIN pledged S$2 million to the Temasek Trust’s Philanthropy Asia
Alliance (PAA) initiative, dedicated to catalysing collaborative philanthropy
in Asia through multi-sector partnerships. SHEIN’s contributions will fund
projects related to PAA’s focus areas of Holistic & Inclusive Education, and
Climate & Nature. Through the PAA platform, SHEIN will be able to leverage
the alliance’s global public, private, and philanthropic member network to
contribute to projects, including those that focus on ecosystem health.
52 The WASH Pledge Self-Assessment Tool; for further details, refer to https://www.wbcsd.org/resources/wash-pledge-self-assessment-tool-for-business/ .Transform
We recognise that partnering with organisations that work on nature
restoration projects is essential to support collective action. Accordingly,
a portion of SHEIN’s grant to the PAA initiative, mentioned above, will go
towards funding projects that aim to address nature-related challenges
across Asia.
We are supportive of advancing industry-wide change and investing in
strategies and solutions that can facilitate the transition. Through our Circularity
Fund, we will explore investments that could help minimise virgin fabric use
and, correspondingly, the impacts of raw material extraction and garment
manufacturing. See here for more information on the Circularity Fund.
We aim to enhance our stakeholder engagement on nature and biodiversity
issues, and to support broader education and awareness-building regarding
the potential impacts of the fashion and textile industry and the importance of
protecting nature and biodiversity. Protect Nature and Biodiversity INTRODUCTION
PL A NE T:
Collective
ResiliencePROCESS GOVERNANCE ANNEX
PEOPLEDecarbonise
Our Value
ChainSource
Responsible
Materials Protect
Nature and
Biodiversity
2024 SUSTAINABILITY AND
SOCIAL IMPACT REPORT61 Our Climate
Risks and
Impact

===== PAGE 62 =====
PROCESS
WASTE-LESS WASTE-LESS
INNOVATIONINNOVATION
Why It Matters
SHEIN believes that innovative solutions will be needed to address the systemic challenges of the fashion industry, with collaboration across the
ecosystem involving all parts of the value chain, from suppliers to customers. Our on-demand business model, enabled by our digitalised supply chain,
is transforming the traditional manufacturing process and reduces excess inventory waste—a widely recognised challenge in the fashion industry and a
significant source of textile waste globally. We believe that innovation has the power to transform the fashion industry, and that SHEIN is well-positioned to
help drive this industry-wide transition by supporting advancements in materials innovation, production planning, end-of-life management, and increasing
customer engagement to promote circularity. PROCESSPLANETPEOPLE
evoluSHEININTRODUCTION
PLANETPROCESS:
Waste-Less
InnovationGOVERNANCE ANNEX
PEOPLEOptimise Resource
Efficiency
Design Circular
SystemsAccelerate
Sustainable

===== PAGE 63 =====
PROCESS
Our Targets and Aspirations 2024 Progress
Engage the majority of SHEIN’s customers in
circularity by 2025• 6.78 million new users joined the SHEIN Exchange platform in 2024, with over 297,000 products listed for sale by over
148,000 unique sellers.
• A third of respondents in our 2024 Circularity Study had resold SHEIN items on SHEIN Exchange (where available in their
markets), and over 40% of respondents across all markets were open to reselling on the platform.
Become a global leader in rescuing deadstock
materials from becoming waste• Rescued 28,058 metres of high-quality deadstock materials through our partnership with Aloqia, marking an
approximately 40% year-over-year increase.
Establish a fully circular textile supply chain by
2050 in alignment with our World Circular Textiles
Day commitment• Continued our multi-year research partnership with Donghua University to study how to drive commercially scalable
production of recycled polyester fibres.
• 12.1% of recycled polyester directly sourced for SHEIN-branded products was textile-to-textile recycled polyester.Our Approach
Our three strategic priorities for driving impact are to:
Optimise Resource
Efficiency
Design Circular
Systems
Accelerate Sustainable
INTRODUCTION
PLANETPROCESS:
Waste-Less
InnovationGOVERNANCE ANNEX
PEOPLEOptimise Resource
Efficiency
Design Circular
SystemsAccelerate
Sustainable

===== PAGE 64 =====
Optimise Resource Efficiency
By leveraging technology to introduce more efficient processes
throughout our value chain, SHEIN strives to minimise our use of
essential resources, such as water, energy, and raw materials,
reduce waste generation, and promote responsible resource use.
Waste-Less Innovation
What distinguishes SHEIN from traditional retailers is our on-demand
business model, which strives to minimise wastage from the start.
closely evaluate customer interest and demand before procuring additional
pieces. Our suppliers are digitally integrated into our platforms, where they can
also access our demand insights, inventory levels, and product performance
insights, enabling them to make more accurate manufacturing decisions and
respond quickly to new orders. Overall, this on-demand, customer-driven
model, anchored in an agile, digitalised supply chain, allows us to offer more
choices to customers at affordable prices, while resulting in less inventory
waste and minimising resource waste from overproduction.
Water-Less Innovation
In line with leveraging our edge in innovation, we invest in the research and
development of manufacturing technology and production processes that
consume less water, and encourage the adoption of these technologies and
practices among our suppliers.
53 The Business of Fashion and McKinsey & Company, The State of Fashion 2025: Challenges at Every Turn, “Inventory Excellence”, pg.116.Planning with Precision
In addition to minimising waste from excess unsold inventory, we
also seek to support our suppliers in minimising the amount of
excess fabric or deadstock left over from production. Traditionally,
suppliers to quickly obtain more precise estimates of fabric volume
required, which reduces excess fabric that might have otherwise
become waste, and improves production efficiency as well. For example, traditional denim manufacturing is known for being resource-
intensive, requiring vast amounts of water and energy for processes such as
dyeing, bleaching, and washing. As such, we continue to promote the use of
Cool Transfer Denim Printing technology, which reduces water usage by 70.5%
compared to conventional denim washing methods, as verified by Bureau
Veritas. This involves a digital printer using reactive ink to print denim textures,
the effects of washing denim to produce features such as faded finishes,
whiskering, and retro-worn effects. This process also eliminates the need for
workers to be in contact with harmful chemicals, such as chlorine and caustic
soda, which may be used in traditional denim production. We also continue to
promote the use of digital thermal transfer printing, a zero-water-waste printing
method verified by Bureau Veritas, for the production of printed fabrics.
In total, these two water-less innovations were used for the production of
around 51% of SHEIN’s directly sourced printed fabrics in 2024, which
corresponds to over 550,000 cubic metres of water saved.
Looking forward, we are also expanding our areas of textile research to
maximise efficiencies and minimise impact as much as possible. For example,
this includes improving dyeing, printing, and textile finishing processes, which
traditionally consume significant amounts of water, chemicals, and energy.
Cool Transfer Denim Printing provides designers with greater flexibility to produce
vibrant and intricate prints, while significantly reducing water usage compared to
conventional denim manufacturing methods.INTRODUCTION
PLANETPROCESS:
Waste-Less
InnovationGOVERNANCE ANNEX
PEOPLEOptimise Resource
Efficiency
Design Circular
SystemsAccelerate
Sustainable

===== PAGE 65 =====
Circularity represents an approach towards production and
consumption which involves reusing, repairing, refurbishing,
and recycling existing materials and products for as long as
possible. Taking a system-level view, our commitment to circularity
concurrently supports our other sustainability goals, including the
reduction of carbon emissions, water consumption, environmental
pollutants, and other detrimental impacts associated with
conventional production methods.
Building a Circular Ecosystem
We believe that true circularity can only be achieved through collaborative
action. This includes efforts to minimise textile waste within our own
operations, as well as collaborations with like-minded partners and industry
experts to advance a fully circular textiles ecosystem, from raw material
sourcing to product end-of-life management.
Since 2022, SHEIN has been a signatory of World Circular Textiles Day,
together with a global coalition of brands, suppliers, and other organisations
united in the common goal of achieving full circularity within the fashion
and textile industry by 2050. We are therefore working together with all
stakeholders across our value chain, from suppliers and employees to our
valued customers, to explore strategies that aim to transform our operational
practices and those of our supply chain partners into a truly circular ecosystem.
In particular, we recognise the challenges associated with the end-of-life
management phase, given the nascent used textiles collection and recycling
ecosystems across many markets globally. Collective efforts are needed from
stakeholders across the ecosystem such as brands, manufacturers, waste
managers, recyclers, and policymakers, to scale the collection infrastructure
and technology solutions so that we can improve resource recovery and cost
efficiencies. SHEIN strives to play our part in such efforts to advance end-of-
life textiles management at an ecosystem level.Design Circular Systems
Design
For A Circular
FutureMaterial Sourcing
• Recycled materials: Reduce proportion of virgin materials used and transition
towards recycled materials, focusing on scaling those made from textile waste.
• Repurposed materials: Reincorporate deadstock fabric into new products.
Goal
Accelerate utilisation of materials diverted from waste streams.
Product Manufacturing
• On-demand: Avoid overproduction through
small batch on-demand business model.
• Innovation: Adopt and scale innovation in
garment production to reduce waste.
Goal
Optimise efficiency to conserve resources; leverage
technology and creativity to minimise waste.
Customer Engagement
• SHEIN Exchange: Encourage peer-to-
• Customer surveys: Understand
customers‘ behaviours and preferences
for engaging with circularity initiatives.
Goal
Enhance understanding of circularity and
promote circular consumption behaviours.
End-of-Life Management
• Garment end-of-life: Support collection and donation programmes.
• Textiles end-of-life: Transform waste textiles into new products or
other use cases.
• Support other organisations’ efforts: Fund organisations working
in local communities impacted by textile waste.
Goal
Manage end-of-life clothing waste and mitigate associated impacts.Data Tracking & Reporting
• Disclose metrics for circularity initiatives,
such as peer-to-peer resale and waste
management.
Goal
Measure impact of circularity efforts and
create a pathway for continuous improvement.Industry Engagement &
Collaboration
• A signatory of World Circular
Textiles Day.
• A member of Textile Exchange.
Goal
Engage with industry leaders
in collective action forums to
advance progress towards a fully
circular future. Investments
• Circularity Fund: Invest in start-ups and
businesses helping to advance circularity
and sustainability.
Goal
Drive positive change in fashion and beyond
by rapidly testing and scaling sustainable
innovations and impact.INTRODUCTION
PLANETPROCESS:
Waste-Less
InnovationGOVERNANCE ANNEX
PEOPLEOptimise Resource
Efficiency
Design Circular
SystemsAccelerate
Sustainable

===== PAGE 66 =====
Design Circular Systems
Engaging on Circularity
How Our Customers Engage in Circularity
Customers are increasingly prioritising sustainability and seeking ways to
extend the lifespan of their clothing. We encourage the prolonged use of our
products and are also committed to designing with circularity in mind. Our
objective is to involve SHEIN customers in circular practices, moving away
from the traditional “take, make, break, forsake” retail model. By embedding
circularity into our production, using more preferred materials, and offering
platforms and programmes to extend product life cycles, we aim to provide
customers with more opportunities to engage in the circular economy.
As part of our efforts to better understand our customers’ purchasing habits
and how we can support them in embracing circularity, SHEIN conducted
multiple studies in 2024, surveying over 8,500 customers across six key
markets: France, Germany, Italy, Poland, the UK, and the USA.
their clothes, while more than 40% of respondents from Poland and the USA
preferred shopping or consigning at physical thrift or vintage stores.
Among the various types of circularity initiatives, we observed the strongest
interest from customers in engaging with resale clothing platforms, such as
SHEIN Exchange. A third of respondents in our 2024 Circularity Study had resold
their SHEIN items on SHEIN Exchange (in markets where SHEIN Exchange is
available) in the past year. US respondents showed the highest engagement, with
customers will love and wear for as long as possible.
Note: Figures may not add up to 100% due to rounding.
Source: SHEIN 2024 Circularity Study, 2024 Fashion Consumption Survey by The Harris PollVery Important Somewhat Important Neutral Not very Important Not Important at allImportant factors for deciding how long to keep an item of clothing
If the style is still trendy or in-season
Which brand it is fromHow comfortable it is to wear
5%What drives decisions on how long to keep an item of clothing?INTRODUCTION
PLANETPROCESS:
Waste-Less
InnovationGOVERNANCE ANNEX
PEOPLEOptimise Resource
Efficiency
Design Circular
SystemsAccelerate
Sustainable

===== PAGE 67 =====
Design Circular Systems
Keeping Clothing in Circulation Longer
SHEIN Exchange
to facilitate the easy listing of items. Likewise, SHEIN customers looking to
explore pre-loved styles can use the search and filter tools within the platform to
create more targeted search results of the pre-loved items available for sale.
First launched in the USA, SHEIN Exchange was expanded further to
France, Germany, and the UK in 2024, providing more of our global customer
find a new lease of life for our garments. Partnering with HOHIILIFE, we provided training and sewing
equipment to 11 deaf and hard-of-hearing individuals, equipping them with the skills to repurpose
garment waste generated as a result of our internal fabric research and development projects.
This effort converted 266 kg of leftover fabric into over 15,000 hair scrunchies. In December 2024,
we organised an event at our CIGM to repurpose leftover fabric into canvas bags, involving 18 SHEIN
employees and the deaf and hard-of-hearing participants. These initiatives not only transform textile
waste scraps into functional products but also empower communities with disabilities by supporting
them in gaining practical skills.Garment Takeback and Recycling
In 2024, we continued to run clothing collection programmes in markets such
as Australia, Brazil, Germany, Italy, Mexico, Portugal, Saudi Arabia, and the
UAE, leveraging occasions like pop-ups where we provide a physical space
for our customers to drop off their pre-loved clothing to be donated or recycled,
conducting door-to-door collection services as part of social impact initiatives,
or donating leftover stock from pop-ups and sample rooms.
2,200 kg of pre-loved garments from more than 3,000 SHEIN customers in
Japan.
Downcycling Textile Waste
In 2024, we also sought to reduce further textile waste generated in our own
operations. We recovered a total of 40 tonnes of fabric, comprising garments selected for quality control sampling and therefore cannot be sold, garments
produced as a result of internal research and development projects, and fabric
cutting waste within our SHEIN-operated facilities.
30 tonnes of cutting waste were sent to fibre manufacturers to be ultimately
recycled back into fabric, which can be used for garment production, and the
remaining recovered fabrics were converted into approximately 3,300 tote
bags, 15,000 hair scrunchies, and downcycled into 2,000 square metres of
INTRODUCTION
PLANETPROCESS:
Waste-Less
InnovationGOVERNANCE ANNEX
PEOPLEOptimise Resource
Efficiency
Design Circular
SystemsAccelerate
Sustainable

===== PAGE 68 =====
Design Circular Systems
Addressing End of Life
SHEIN is committed to finding sustainable solutions to address the issue of
discarded textiles. Since 2022, we have supported efforts to tackle global
textile waste management and further the development of a circular economy
in textiles through the SHEIN Extended Producer Responsibility Fund. In 2024,
we continued to support The Or Foundation’s work in Ghana, and made a grant
to the UnTours Foundation to support textile waste management efforts in
Cambodia. SHEIN Foundation also made a grant to the Africa Collect Textiles
(ACT) Foundation to promote the donation and recycling of used textiles in
Kenya and the broader African region.
The Or Foundation
In its second fund year (July 2023 to July 2024), The Or Foundation continued
to support retailers and upcyclers to manage second-hand garments and
clean up the ecosystems impacted by the problem of textile waste.
It invested US$4.2 million in efforts to promote a circular economy for textiles
and uplift the community. As a result:
• 55 women transitioned from hazardous head-carrying jobs to apprenticeships
in safer trades. The programme also includes providing comprehensive
healthcare, housing, and scholarships for advanced education.
malaria, and fire events.
• 260 fire extinguishers were installed.
• Over 400 tons of waste were collected and removed with 50 people
mobilised dedicated to beach clean-up initiatives.
• 75,147 waste garments were transformed into fibreboards and mops.
• 103 participants participated in the Community Business Incubation
programme, which trains participants in everything from quality control
and design to financial and business planning.
• Over US$120,000 was regranted to allied organisations undertaking
upcycling initiatives across Africa, including waste management and
cleanup groups, as well as educational and human rights organisations
working with vulnerable populations related to the communities The Or
UnTours Foundation
SHEIN granted US$250,000 to the UnTours Foundation to support a
Cambodian initiative, KaTik, aimed at upcycling textile waste, in collaboration
with local social enterprises. The UnTours Foundation, known for providing
low-interest loans to businesses addressing critical social, economic, and
environmental challenges, will use this grant to empower local artisans and
promote textile waste circularity in Cambodia.
Over nine months, KaTik launched a platform to help designers and makers
create and sell circular products, and established an upcycling facility and
a learning laboratory for its team of makers and designers. Overall, KaTik
successfully processed nearly 16,000 kg of textile waste, partnering with 10
local brands and designers, and supporting 50 jobs both directly and across
partner organisations.Africa Collect Textiles Foundation
In 2024, the SHEIN Foundation committed €5 million to the ACT Foundation,
the charitable arm of ACT, a social enterprise that has developed a used
textiles collection and recycling pilot in Kenya. The funds will be used to
support the ACT Foundation’s activities to promote textile donation and post-
consumer textile recycling in Kenya and the broader African region, which
includes:
• Installation of a convenient and accessible network of drop-off points for
members of the public to donate their used clothing.
• Creation of new jobs such as collectors, sorters, and artisans who will
upcycle textile waste into new products, with a focus on hiring youth and
women from vulnerable communities.
• Building of recycling infrastructure to process larger volumes of textile waste.
• Promotion of online and offline outreach programmes for communities, such
as upcycling workshops, lectures, and neighbourhood collection drives.
INTRODUCTION
PLANETPROCESS:
Waste-Less
InnovationGOVERNANCE ANNEX
PEOPLEOptimise Resource
Efficiency
Design Circular
SystemsAccelerate
Sustainable

===== PAGE 69 =====
throughout our operations.
Manufacturing Innovation and Training
Established in 2022, SHEIN’s CIGM focuses on developing waste reduction
and efficiency-enhancing technologies that can be standardised and scaled
across our entire supply chain. The CIGM engages in garment manufacturing
participants across 1,056 suppliers, covering topics such as business and
operational processes, as well as the latest technologies in garment production.
CIGM also organised 97 technical certification courses, with 1,758 participants
successfully completing and obtaining certifications in areas such as quality
inspections and assurance, as well as national vocational skill level certifications.
In line with our belief in empowering our ecosystem, the CIGM also sought to
expand its outreach efforts by initiating off-site practical training programmes,
Accelerate Sustainable InnovationINTRODUCTION
PLANETPROCESS:
Waste-Less
InnovationGOVERNANCE ANNEX
PEOPLEOptimise Resource
Efficiency
Design Circular
SystemsAccelerate
Sustainable

===== PAGE 70 =====
Accelerate Sustainable Innovation
Materials Research and Innovation
Scaling textile-to-textile recycling will be an important part of our circular
transition, as well as that of the fashion industry as a whole.
As we support efforts to ramp up textile-to-textile recycling capacities to
accelerate the transition, we understand that the key to scaling is finding
the right practical solutions that work for our business. For example, today,
recycled polyester fabrics generally come at a higher price premium compared
to other fabrics, which can hinder their adoption on a larger scale.
To this end, we had launched a multi-year research partnership with Donghua
University, a university specialising in engineering and material sciences, to study
how to drive commercially scalable production of recycled polyester fibres.
In 2024, our research team focused on developing a recycling process that
could result in better quality and cost efficiencies, in order to support wider
adoption within industry. While primarily a mechanical recycling method, to
improve quality, this process also incorporates aspects of chemical recycling to
remove impurities and increase molecular weight, and avoids the use of toxic
chemicals such as methanol or ethylene glycol. The recycling process therefore
allows the resulting fibres recovered from the polyester feedstock to be recycled
repeatedly without compromising key material properties, such as tensile
strength, melt viscosity, and colour adoption.
At this stage of the project, SHEIN will be partnering with selected partner fibre
manufacturers, to scale up the technology from a laboratory-scale setting to a
facility capable of producing recycled polyester fibres at a larger commercial scale.In 2024,
12.1%
of recycled polyester directly sourced for SHEIN-branded
products was textile-to-textile recycled polyester.Multi-Layer Ruching
Presser Foot
SHEIN developed a presser foot that can achieve between two and
INTRODUCTION
PLANETPROCESS:
Waste-Less
InnovationGOVERNANCE ANNEX
PEOPLEOptimise Resource
Efficiency
Design Circular
SystemsAccelerate
Sustainable

===== PAGE 71 =====
Accelerate Sustainable Innovation
Investing in the Future with Circularity Fund
In July 2024, SHEIN announced the launch of a new €200 million Circularity
Fund to support start-ups and businesses throughout the EU and the UK that
are advancing sustainability and circularity.
We have since engaged widely with industry stakeholders, including
manufacturers, brands, solution providers, NGOs, and multi-stakeholder
initiatives, to understand where the current gaps and pain points are in driving
sustainability innovations across the fashion ecosystem, and refine our
strategies for deploying the Circularity Fund in an impactful manner.
We realised that we would need to minimise impacts across the product life
cycle in order to truly promote a closed-loop system, including looking into
how to collect or process material to be recycled, and how to transport and
incorporate the recycled materials for production. As such, we are planning to
deploy our Circularity Fund to invest in companies across key phases of the
product life cycle including design and material use, transport and logistics,
and end-of-life management.
We look forward to investing in long-term solutions that are viable for business
and have the potential to scale, and to providing further updates on the Circularity
Fund in the future.
At Aloqia, we believe that the future of supply chains lies in innovation and circularity. Our partnership
with SHEIN harnesses our cutting-edge technology to access available deadstock inventory from other
companies to bring various fashion designs to life. Together, by continuously enhancing our software
capabilities and optimising our business processes, we are paving the way for a more efficient global circular
economy – where waste is minimised, and every resource is maximised, which also fuels business success.
Stephanie Benedetto, CEO of Aloqia
Circular Innovation
Incorporating Deadstock with Aloqia
SHEIN’s partnership with Aloqia has grown since 2022. As of 2024, Aloqia’s
materials available for designers to use. This means more efficient execution in
identifying fabrics that meet our strict sourcing criteria, procuring deadstock
resources, and measuring the environmental impact savings from using these
materials in place of newly produced textiles.
In 2024, 28,058 metres of high-quality deadstock materials were rescued
increase. These materials were incorporated into a number of collections,
including evoluSHEIN X Anitta and SHEIN X Rescued. By repurposing
excess inventory, SHEIN saved resources–including textile fibres such as
polyester, recycled polyester, spandex, nylon, rayon, lyocell, and modal–
conserving 202,083 cubic metres of water, 4,447 kg of chemicals, and over
42 metric tons of CO₂e compared to traditional production, according to the
impact measurement algorithms developed by Aloqia with the support of data
metres of fabric, and we look forward to scaling up this effort in 2025.INTRODUCTION
PLANETPROCESS:
Waste-Less
InnovationGOVERNANCE ANNEX
PEOPLEOptimise Resource
Efficiency
Design Circular
SystemsAccelerate
Sustainable

===== PAGE 73 =====
of ethical concerns globally. Reports received are triaged and assigned to
either our Internal Control and Internal Audit team, Supervision team, or
Human Resource Compliance team, depending on the nature of the case.
All reports are handled confidentially, and our policies strictly prohibit any
retaliation against whistleblowers, including in aspects such as performance
overseen by the Privacy Compliance function, which reports to the Chief
Security Officer.
SHEIN has continued to expand our security and privacy certifications,
successfully attaining ISO 27001 certifications for our European e-commerce
platforms and across all operations in the USA. Internally, our cybersecurity
team conducts security audits to ensure compliance with cybersecurity and
service tools, empowering our customers to exercise their privacy rights in
accordance with applicable regional and global privacy regulations.
As social engineering and other human-targeting methods continue to be
among the most common cybersecurity attack vectors for any organisation,
we recognise the importance of establishing and maintaining a culture of
training and send out awareness communications on topics such as
phishing and data leakage.
4. Role-Based Training: We conduct targeted training for personnel in
specific roles, such as warehouse and customer service personnel.
5. Policy Training: We conduct training on new and updated security and
privacy policies as needed throughout the year.
SHEIN will continue to evolve our strategy for cybersecurity and privacy in line
with the evolving operating environment, threat and regulatory landscape, and
industry best practices.
SHEIN Marketplace Compliance

===== PAGE 74 =====
Any violations of such Marketplace Policies could result in actions including
suspension of the seller’s SHEIN Marketplace account, cancellation of listings,
suspension or forfeiture of payments, and removal of selling privileges.
SHEIN also reserves the right to report any violations to regulatory authorities,
industry associations, and third-party auditors.
Across our range of product categories, SHEIN configures corresponding
product rules in our system. These rules cover product and merchant
standards for testing, registration, certification, labelling, and more, based on
product type.
For the systematic management of both SHEIN-branded products and
place, such as SHEIN’s Restricted Substances List (RSL) and SHEIN’s
codes of conduct for sellers.
2. Documentation and Certification Review: Suppliers and sellers are
required to submit relevant documentation for products from categories
such as electronics, children’s toys, children’s products, baby products,
equipment, and textiles with specific regulatory requirements for SHEIN’s
system checks and manual reviews.
3. Monitoring and Testing: Product safety tests, including chemical tests,
are conducted throughout the production cycle in collaboration with leading
third-party testing agencies, such as Intertek, SGS, Bureau Veritas, and

===== PAGE 75 =====
including the Apparel and Footwear International RSL Management
(AFIRM) Working Group, the EU Regulation on Registration, Evaluation,
Authorisation and Restriction of Chemicals (REACH), the EU Regulation
on Persistent Organic Pollutions (POPs), and the USA’s Consumer
Product Safety Improvement Act and Children’s Safe Products Act,
amongst others. Our RSL also imposes prohibitions on per- and
polyfluoroalkyl substances (PFAS).
• For SHEIN-branded apparel, suppliers must additionally comply with
our MRSL, which sets out restricted substance standards for chemical
formulas that may be used in the production process, such as dyes,
additives, and finishing agents, developed with reference to the Zero
Discharge of Hazardous Chemicals (ZDHC) MRSL. Similar to our RSL,
our MRSL also prohibits the use of PFAS in chemical formulas used in the
production of apparel products.
The majority of non-apparel products are sold under SHEIN Marketplace and
comprise diverse categories. For product categories with specific regulatory
requirements, Marketplace sellers are required to submit certificates, labels,
and other documentation based on product safety laws and regulations in the
countries where we operate.
55 Since an inspection may include a series of tests, the sample is considered to have failed the inspection if any one of the tests conducted fails the relevant testing standard.a number of different tests, depending on the product type, composition, and
associated risks. For apparel products, for instance, we test for factors such
as tear strength, pilling and colour fastness, in addition to chemical testing.
These tests are conducted by international third-party testing agencies such as
Bureau Veritas, Intertek, SGS, and TÜV. In 2024, we conducted over 700,000
inspections on apparel products for compliance with relevant standards.
Category Number of Inspections Pass Rate55
Chemical safety 189,437 98.3%
Shrinkage rate 136,117 89.3%
Strength 48,312 95.4%
For example, in 2024, we partnered with contract manufacturers and fabric
suppliers in our network to research ways to minimise fabric shrinkage.
Generally, washing, drying or exposure to heat and moisture can cause garments to shrink, and the degree of shrinkage varies depending on the
fibre type, weave, and finishing processes. This could then impact the fit,
appearance, and overall quality of the garment. To manage the impact on
stage. Working with our fabric suppliers, we tested various pre-shrinking
and finishings, and introduced ring-drying to stabilise the fibre at the fabric
production stage. On woven cotton fabrics with specific characteristics such as
double-layered creased or washed cotton, this could improve shrinkage rates
from as high as -8 to -10% to -5 to 2%. This achieves better quality outcomes
and also reduces the need for pre-washing, thereby conserving both water and
energy resources in the process.
Green Claims
As SHEIN continues to implement our evoluSHEIN strategy and expand our

===== PAGE 76 =====
This report contains forward-looking statements. All statements that are not
historical or current facts, including those pertaining to our plans, initiatives,
projections, goals, commitments, expectations, or prospects, are considered
forward-looking. We use terms such as aim, believe, commit, drive, estimate, ensure, expect,
goal, intend, may, mission, plan, project, seek, strategy, strive, target, will,
and similar expressions to identify these forward-looking statements. Such
statements reflect management’s current expectations and inherently
geographic regions where we operate, or other changes in circumstances.
The standards of measurement and performance outlined in the report are
evolving and based on assumptions, and no assurance can be provided
that any plans, initiatives, projections, goals, commitments, expectations, or
prospects stated in this report will be realised.
We undertake no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking
Forward-Looking
StatementsExternal
Assurance
GRI Content
IndexESRS Content

===== PAGE 77 =====
External Assurance
INDEPENDENT LIMITED ASSURANCE REPORT ON SELECTED
SUSTAINABILITY INFORMATION IN ROADGET BUSINESS PTE.
LTD.’S SUSTAINABILITY AND SOCIAL IMPACT REPORT 2024
We have been engaged by the Board of Directors of Roadget Business Pte.
Ltd. (the “Company”), also referred to under the brand name SHEIN, to
perform a limited assurance engagement on the selected information (the
“Selected Sustainability Information”) set out in Appendix 1A and Appendix
1B, which is presented in the Company and its affiliates’ (collectively referred
the Company's reporting and scoping boundary of the Selected Sustainability
Information under the GRI.
Our Limited Assurance Conclusion
Based on the procedures we have performed as described under the
“Summary of the procedures we performed as the basis for our assurance
conclusion” and the evidence we have obtained, nothing has come to our
attention that causes us to believe that the Selected Sustainability Information
in the Group’s Sustainability and Social Impact Report 2024, is not prepared, in
all material respects, with reference to the Reporting Criteria.
We do not express an assurance conclusion on information in respect of earlier
periods or on any other information linked to the sustainability information or
the Group’s website, including images, audio files or embedded videos. We
also do not express any form of assurance conclusion on reporting standards
not included within the Reporting Criteria such as the European Sustainability
Reporting Standards.Understanding how Group Management has Prepared the Selected
Responsibilities of the Practitioner
We are responsible for:
• Planning and performing the engagement to obtain limited assurance
about whether anything has come to our attention that causes us to believe
that the Selected Sustainability Information in the Group’s Sustainability
Professional Standards Applied
We conducted our engagement in accordance with the International Standard
on Assurance Engagements 3000 (Revised) “Assurance Engagements
other than Audits or Reviews of Historical Financial Information” issued by the
International Auditing and Assurance Standards Board.
Our Independence and Quality Management
We have complied with the independence and other ethical requirements
Our firm applies International Standard on Quality Management 1 “Quality
Management for Firms that Perform Audit or Reviews of Financial Statements,
or Other Assurance or Related Services Engagements”, which requires
the firm to design, implement and operate a system of quality management
including policies or procedures regarding compliance with ethical
Forward-Looking
StatementsExternal
Assurance
GRI Content
IndexESRS Content

===== PAGE 78 =====
External Assurance
Summary of the Procedures we Performed as the Basis for our
Assurance Conclusion
Based on the risk and materiality considerations, we performed our procedures
to obtain sufficient and appropriate assurance evidence. The procedures
we performed were based on our professional judgment. In carrying out our
limited assurance engagement on the Selected Sustainability Information, our
procedures included:
• Evaluated the suitability in the circumstances of the Group’s use of the
Information in the Sustainability and Social Impact Report 2024;
• Through inquiries, obtained an understanding of the Group’s control
environment, processes and information systems relevant to the
preparation of the Selected Sustainability Information, but did not evaluate
the design of particular control activities, obtain evidence about their
• Performed analytical procedures to identify risk factors by comparing certain
Selected Sustainability Information in the current period to the prior period;
• Performed sample testing on the Greenhouse Gas (“GHG”) emissions
calculation to check the data inputs to supporting documents and evaluate
whether the Group’s adoption of emission factors applied are consistent
with Appendix 2. Our procedures did not include testing the data on which
estimates are based or separately developing our own estimates against
procedures did not include an independent validation of the conclusions
included in these SRS audit reports, including any violations of applicable
labour laws;• Obtained the third-party expert reports related to implementation of energy
efficiency measures and checked whether the Group reported projected
annual savings according to the factual number stated in the expert reports.
Our procedures did not include an independent validation of the results
of the projected annual savings. Therefore, no assurance is given to the
results of the projected annual savings prepared by third-party experts;
• Tested samples of product inspection reports from third-party experts
and independent labs for i) Chemical safety inspections; ii) Shrinkage
rate inspections; iii) Strength inspections; and iv) Colour fastness
inspections, and checked whether the Group reported the number of
factual outcomes of the inspections. Our procedures did not include an
independent validation of the conclusions from the product inspection
reports. Therefore, no assurance is given to the results of the product
inspections prepared by third-party experts and independent labs; and
• Considered the presentation and disclosure of the Selected Sustainability
Information in the Sustainability and Social Impact Report 2024.
The procedures performed in a limited assurance engagement vary in nature
and timing from, and are less in extent than for, a reasonable assurance
engagement. Consequently, the level of assurance obtained in a limited
assurance engagement is substantially lower than the assurance that would
have been obtained had we performed a reasonable assurance engagement.Inherent Limitation
GHG emissions quantification is subject to significant inherent measurement
uncertainty because of such things as GHG emissions factors that are used
in mathematical models to calculate GHG emissions, and the inability of
these models, due to incomplete scientific knowledge and other factors, to
accurately measure under all circumstances the relationship between various
inputs and the resultant GHG emissions. Environmental and energy use data
used in GHG emissions calculations are subject to inherent limitations, given
the nature and the methods used for measuring such data. The selection by
management of different but similarly acceptable measurement techniques
could have resulted in materially different amounts or metrics being reported.
Use of Independent Limited Assurance Report
This independent limited assurance report is made solely to Board of Directors
of the Company for the purpose of providing a limited assurance conclusion
on the Selected Sustainability Information in the Group’s Sustainability and
Social Impact Report 2024. As a result, the report may not be suitable for
Forward-Looking
StatementsExternal
Assurance
GRI Content
IndexESRS Content

===== PAGE 79 =====
Sustainability and Social
Impact Report 2024
Environmental
PerformanceDirect (Scope 1) GHG emissions 305-1Fossil fuel combustion emissions: 2,809
Fugitive emissions: 1,407
Metric tons CO2e47
Energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions (Location-based)
305-2121,566 47
Energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions (Market-based) 26,695 47
Scope 3 GHG Emissions: Category 1 - Purchased goods and services
305-311,201,419 47
Scope 3 GHG Emissions: Category 3 - Fuel- and energy-related activities (not
included in scope 1 or scope 2)18,412 47
Scope 3 GHG Emissions: Category 4 - Upstream transportation and distribution 8,519,829 47
Scope 3 GHG Emissions: Category 5 - Waste generated in operations 8,322 47
Scope 3 GHG Emissions: Category 6 - Business travel 9,304 47
Energy consumption within SHEIN-operated facilities
302-1c243,340Megawatt hours
(MWh)48
Percentage of electricity derived from renewable sources for SHEIN-operated
facilities76% Percentage 44, 48
Amount of solar energy used across SHEIN-operated facilities 15,105 MWh 48
Amount of renewable energy from Energy Attribute Certificates (EACs) purchased
in 2024170,200 MWh 48
Training and
Number of SHEIN employees who completed online courses on forced labour,
child labour and decent work through the UNGC Academy and International
Training Centre of the ILO (ITCILO) as of end of 202447 Number 32External AssuranceINTRODUCTION
PLANET PROCESS GOVERNANCE ANNEX
PEOPLE
Forward-Looking
StatementsExternal
Assurance
GRI Content
IndexESRS Content

===== PAGE 80 =====
External Assurance
Topic Indicator Description GRI
Standards
Sustainability and Social
Impact Report 2024
MaterialsMaterials used in apparel products (by weight, % of materials portfolio): Polyester
301-181.5% Percentage 55
Materials used in apparel products (by weight, % of materials portfolio): Cotton 6.7% Percentage 55
Materials used in apparel products (by weight, % of materials portfolio): Viscose 4.6% Percentage 55
Materials used in apparel products (by weight, % of materials portfolio): Spandex 3.7% Percentage 55
Materials used in apparel products (by weight, % of materials portfolio): Polyamide 3.3% Percentage 55
Materials used in apparel products (by weight, % of materials portfolio): Other fiber
categories (including linen, acrylic and metallics)0.2% Percentage 55
Proportion of overall polyester designated for use by contract manufacturers that is
recycled301-2 6.7% Percentage 44, 55
WasteNumber of SHEIN-operated facilities that divert waste from disposal
306-434, including 33 SHEIN-operated warehouses in China and the
CIGM in 2024 Number 52
Number of SHEIN-operated facilities that achieved Zero Waste to Landfill
Management System certification7 as of end-2024
(5 facilities, including CIGM and four SHEIN-operated warehouses,
were awarded certification in 2024)Number 52
Total weight of recycled industrial waste materials Category Weight (tonnes) Disposal
Cardboard and paper 38,183.5
Recycling Plastics 11,084.0
Textiles waste (Recycled) 398.1
Textile waste (Reused) 223.9ReuseOthers 7.7
Energy recovery from waste 2,230.8 Waste-to-energy
Total weight of industrial
waste generated52,128Metric tons 52
Total weight of industrial waste generated in SHEIN-operated facilities 306-3 Metric tons 52
Breakdown of waste treatment by disposal method, as handled by third-party waste
management service providers306-4
306-5Metric tons 52
Percentage of industrial waste that was recycled 306-4 95% Percentage 52
Water Total water consumption in SHEIN-operated facilities 303-5 1,557 ,957 Cubic meters 60INTRODUCTION
PLANET PROCESS GOVERNANCE ANNEX
PEOPLE
Forward-Looking
StatementsExternal
Assurance
GRI Content
IndexESRS Content

===== PAGE 81 =====
External Assurance
Topic Indicator Description GRI
Standards
triaged and assigned to either our Internal Control and Internal Audit,
Supervision, or Human Resource Compliance teams, depending on
the nature of the case.Qualitative 73
Description of measures in the Global Code of Ethics to protect whistleblowers
against retaliationAll reports are handled confidentially, and our policies strictly prohibit
Forward-Looking
StatementsExternal
Assurance
GRI Content
IndexESRS Content

===== PAGE 82 =====
External Assurance
Topic Indicator Description GRI
Standards
Forward-Looking
StatementsExternal
Assurance
GRI Content
IndexESRS Content

===== PAGE 83 =====
External Assurance
Appendix 1B
List of Selected Sustainability Information presented in the Group’s Sustainability and Social Impact Report 2024 with reference to Group management’s definition and measurement criteria as described under “Applicable Criteria”.
Sustainability and Social
Impact Report 2024
Environmental
PerformanceSolar capacity installed or being installed in SHEIN-
operated facilities56.3 Megawatts (MW)The solar capacity installed in SHEIN-operated
specifications provided by the vendor.48, 53
Number of SHEIN-operated facilities in China where
energy efficiency measures have been implemented in
2024 (“Energy-efficient facilities”)***23 Number
The count of facilities that have implemented SHEIN's
energy efficiency guidelines, and the projected annual
energy savings, delivered and verified by a third-party
expert48, 53
Projected annual energy savings from the
implementation of energy efficiency measures at
Energy-efficient facilities***Estimated annual reduction in electricity consumption:
23,000 MWh
Estimated annual reduction in carbon emissions:
13,000 tCO2eMWh, tCO2e 48
Solar capacity installed or being installed in suppliers'
Forward-Looking
StatementsExternal
Assurance
GRI Content
IndexESRS Content

===== PAGE 84 =====
External Assurance
Topic Indicator Description Disclosure Unit Applicable Criteria Page number in the
Sustainability and Social
Impact Report 2024
Environmental
PerformanceNumber of fabric production factories where energy
efficiency measures were initiated (“Energy-efficient
fabric production factories”)***8 Number
The count of fabric production factories that have
participated in energy efficiency projects initiated by
a third-party expert in partnership with SHEIN, and
the projected annual savings in electricity , natural gas,
steam and carbon emissions, measured and verified by
a third-party expert50
Projected annual savings in electricity , natural gas,
steam and carbon emissions from energy efficiency
measures at Energy-efficient fabric production
factories***Estimated annual reduction in electricity consumption:
10,870 MWh
Estimated annual reduction in natural gas consumption:
194,000 m³
Estimated annual reduction in steam consumption:
73,600 tonnes
Estimated annual reduction in carbon emissions:
36,000 tCO₂eMWh, m³,
tonnes, tCO₂e50
Number of supplier sites where energy-saving
practices in line with SHEIN’s standardised energy
efficiency guidelines have been implemented, and their
projected annual energy savings***Number of supplier sites: nearly 80
Estimated annual reduction in electricity consumption:
2,302 MWh
Estimated annual reduction in carbon emissions:
1,391 tCO₂eNumber, MWh,
tCO₂eThe count of supplier sites that have adopted energy
efficiency initiatives in accordance with the guidance
provided in the SHEIN Energy-Saving Measures
Implementation Guide
Projected annual energy savings from the
implementation of the SHEIN Energy-Saving Measures
Implementation Guide verified by a third-party expert50
Existence of activities to promote solarisation for
suppliersWe continued to promote the adoption of rooftop solar energy
in our supply chain by connecting suppliers with third-party
expert consultants who support the suppliers in developing
Forward-Looking
StatementsExternal
Assurance
GRI Content
IndexESRS Content

===== PAGE 85 =====
External Assurance
Topic Indicator Description Disclosure Unit Applicable Criteria Page number in the
Sustainability and Social
Impact Report 2024
MaterialsProportion of viscose fabrics from 'Green Shirt' rated
producers 72.5% Percentage% of viscose fabrics from producers who achieved 'Green
Shirt' rating as defined in Canopy's Hot Button Report, out
of the total viscose fabrics procured, by weight
A 'Green Shirt' indicates that the Man-Made Cellulosic
Fibre (MMCF) producer has a low risk of sourcing from
Ancient and Endangered Forests.44, 55
Deadstock materials procured through Aloqia platform 28,058 MetersLength of deadstock fabric procured through the Aloqia
platform
Deadstock fabric refers to unused textile materials left
over from brands and manufacturers.71
PackagingPercentage of packaging procured that contained at
least 50% preferred materials17% PercentagePackaging made from FSC & GRS material as % of total
packaging used (by quantity)
Preferred materials used for packaging are recycled
polyethylene and paper packaging not sourced from
Ancient and Endangered Forests.44, 56
Decrease in average packaging weight per polybag
from thickness optimisation 4.37g decrease in average weight of express delivery polybag
0.99g decrease in average weight of garment polybagGramsAverage decrease in weight of polybag across
packaging sizes 56
Product Quality
(Apparel)*Number of chemical safety inspections 189,437 Number
Number of inspections performed by third party
laboratories75
Forward-Looking
StatementsExternal
Assurance
GRI Content
IndexESRS Content

===== PAGE 86 =====
External Assurance
Topic Indicator Description Disclosure Unit Applicable Criteria Page number in the
Sustainability and Social
Impact Report 2024
Product Quality
(Apparel)*Percentage of chemical safety , shrinkage rate,
strength, and colour fastness inspections achieving a
pass resultChemical safety inspections: 98.3%
Shrinkage rate inspections: 89.3%
Strength inspections: 95.4%
InnovationNumber of training sessions conducted by CIGM for
suppliers and number of participants69 vocational skills training sessions for 1,221 participants
97 technical certification courses for 1,758 participantsNumberNumber of conducted CIGM training sessions and
the number of participants who completed the training
sessions in 202469
Procurement value of audited SHEIN-branded contract
manufacturers as % of total procurement value of
SHEIN-branded products by contract manufacturers Approximately 95% Percentage SRS Policy 4.0, 2. Scope 15, 28
Total number of annual on-site SRS audits conducted
on existing suppliers and subcontractorsii ("annual
SRS audits")**4,288 Number SRS Policy 4.0, 5.4.1 15, 28
i The period from 1 January 2024 to 31 December 2024.
ii Refers to all suppliers with registered business entities in China, including contract manufacturers (with direct procurement contracts with SHEIN entities), fabric suppliers, packaging suppliers, and subcontractors.
iii Procurement value of SHEIN-branded products: Value of purchases made by SHEIN from its contract manufacturers for SHEIN-branded products in 2024.
iv SHEIN Responsible Sourcing (SRS) Policy Version 4.0, accessed from: SHEIN Responsible Sourcing Policy - SHEIN Group .INTRODUCTION
Forward-Looking
StatementsExternal
Assurance
GRI Content
IndexESRS Content

===== PAGE 87 =====
External Assurance
Topic Indicator Description Disclosure Unit Applicable Criteria Page number in the
Sustainability and Social
Management in
2024iNumber of annual SRS audits conducted on fabric
suppliers, packaging suppliers, and subcontractors**ii 714 NumberSRS Policy 4.0, 5.4.1 and 5.5. Subcontractor SRS
Management28
Number of annual SRS audits conducted on contract
fabric suppliers subjected to annual SRS audits as %
of total procurement value by contract manufacturers
from fabric suppliersiii 86% Percentage SRS Policy 4.0, 2. Scope 28
Value of purchases of packaging procured by SHEIN
for use by contract manufacturers from packaging
suppliers subjected to annual SRS audits as % of total
procurement value of packaging purchased by SHEIN
for use by contract manufacturersiii 83% Percentage SRS Policy 4.0, 2. Scope 28
% of annual SRS audits conducted by SHEIN’s partner
third-party verification agencies or third-party auditors
Forward-Looking
StatementsExternal
Assurance
GRI Content
IndexESRS Content

===== PAGE 88 =====
Total – 34NumberTotal number of grievance complaints received via
SHEIN’s established channels and classified based
on nature and severity , in line with SHEIN’s internal
procedures for grievance management 31External Assurance
vi Established channels refer to SHEIN’s ESG-CSR email, hotline, official WeChat account and grievances received by other departments that are routed to the ESG department.INTRODUCTION
PLANET PROCESS GOVERNANCE ANNEX
Forward-Looking
StatementsExternal
Assurance
GRI Content
IndexESRS Content

===== PAGE 89 =====
Number of summer camps organised for children of
suppliers’ workers 3 Number The reported number represents summer camps that
were conducted and completed 33External AssuranceINTRODUCTION
PLANET PROCESS GOVERNANCE ANNEX
PEOPLE
Forward-Looking
StatementsExternal
Assurance
GRI Content
IndexESRS Content

===== PAGE 90 =====
External Assurance
Topic Indicator Description Disclosure Unit Applicable Criteria Page number in the
Sustainability and Social
SHEIN Spotlight programme.15, 33
* Our procedures did not include the validation of the conclusions included in these product inspections performed by third-party experts and independent labs. Our testing objective is to check whether the Group reported the number of product inspections and percentage with a pass result according to the
factual outcomes of inspections. Therefore, no assurance is given to the results of the product inspections prepared by third-party experts and independent labs.
** Our procedures did not include the validation of the conclusions included in these supplier audit reports prepared by verification agencies hired by SHEIN Group or by SHEIN itself. Our testing objective is to check whether the Group reported the SRS audit information according to the audit reports prepared by
verification agencies or by SHEIN itself only. Therefore, no assurance is given to the result of SRS audit prepared by verification agencies or the Group.
*** Our procedures did not include the validation of the conclusions included in these projected annual savings in energy performed by third-party experts in partnership with SHEIN. Our testing objective is to check whether the Group reported the projected annual savings according to the factual number stated in
the expert report. Therefore, no assurance is given to the result of the projected annual savings prepared by third-party experts.INTRODUCTION
PLANET PROCESS GOVERNANCE ANNEX
PEOPLE
Forward-Looking
StatementsExternal
Assurance
GRI Content
IndexESRS Content

===== PAGE 91 =====
SHEIN's Reporting and Scoping Boundary of the Selected
Sustainability Information
GHG Accounting Scope and Methodology
The greenhouse gas (GHG) quantification method and process are in
accordance with ISO14064-1:2018 and the GHG Protocol.
SHEIN uses the operational control approach in conformance with the GHG
Protocol to report its energy and emissions metrics for the facilities, including
offices and warehouses, where SHEIN has operational control.
Estimation & Calculation Methods
Scope 1
Scope 1 comprises direct emissions generated in SHEIN operating sites,
including emissions from fossil fuel combustion (both stationary sources and
mobile sources), refrigerants and fire extinguishers. Greenhouse gases included
in the calculation are CO2, CH4, N2O, HFCs (HFC-32, HFC-125, HFC-134a,
HFC-143a, HFC-236fa, HFC-227ea).
Emission factors of fossil fuels combustion are derived from national standards/
guidance where the operating sites are located in. Where national emissions
factors are not available, default factors from IPCC Guidelines for National
Greenhouse Gas Inventories (hereinafter IPCC Guidelines) are applied.
Fugitives from refrigerants and fire extinguishers are calculated using
emissions factors and methods from IPCC Guidelines. For refrigerants,
fugitive emissions are estimated based on the quantity of refilled refrigerant,
calculated using the rated refrigeration capacity of each ACMV system. External Assurance
For fire extinguishers, all potential emissions are included in the first year of
installation. Fugitive emissions from fire extinguishers only account for new
purchases, resulting in a decrease in total fugitive emissions in 2024. For
facilities where activity data is unavailable, estimates were derived using prior-
year data or proxy data from facilities located in the same region and comparable
gross floor area, in order to provide a reasonable basis for the reported
information.
Fugitive emissions from septic systems are not included in 2024 due to limited
accessibility to the activity data and indirect control over their generation.
Scope 2
Scope 2 comprises indirect emissions from purchased electricity consumed in
SHEIN’s operating sites.
The market-based emissions reflect the GHG emissions associated with
the specific choices SHEIN has made with electricity suppliers or product,
mainly renewable electricity. The renewable electricity includes onsite solar
consumed, and electricity purchased via Energy Attribute Certificates (EACs)
as well as nuclear energy, as described in the market-based emissions
table and EACs procurement on page 47-48. SHEIN can confirm that all the
EACs have met the GHG protocol quality criteria, and been procured from
unsubsidised wind/photovoltaic projects in the same country of the operation
sites for geographic alignment.
The emission factors of the market-based emissions are regional/country-
specific emission factors, or the emissions profiles associated with EACs.
For the residual emissions from the grid in China other than the renewable
electricity, the 2022 market-based grid emission factor published by the
Chinese Ministry of Environment, which excludes market-traded non-fossil
electricity, has been used. For facilities where activity data is unavailable,
estimates were derived using prior-year data or proxy data from facilities
located in the same region and comparable gross floor area, in order to
provide a reasonable basis for the reported information.The location-based emissions use average emission factors for the electricity
grids that are providing electricity to the facility, which mainly are IEA emissions
factors 2023 edition.
Scope 3
Category 1 – Purchased Goods and Services
This category comprises the emissions from the supply chain of products
purchased by SHEIN, consumables in SHEIN warehousing activities and
purchased data services. The emissions from the product supply chain are
calculated using the total weight, material composition or the cost of products
purchased in the reporting year.
For products with designated material sourcing channels, the emissions are
calculated based on the material composition of the product, the standard
weight of each product unit and the procurement amount. Emission factors are
derived from SHEIN's 2024 life cycle assessment results (LCA, page 58), where
the selected LCA samples have high representativeness withare considered
highly representative of the purchased products. Where such representativeness
is not established, emission factors from external life-cycle assessment
databases (e.g. Ecoinvent) are used.
For other products, where the compositions information is not available,
mainly non-apparel products, the spend-based method is applied using the
purchased cost of the products as the activity data. The emission factors
are assigned based on product categories from the US EEIO Commodity
Emissions Factors Database.
The emissions from two major purchased services have been included,
which are data services and advertising services. The data service emissions
are SHEIN-specific data directly from contracted data service providers.
Advertising services, including pop-up stores and other offline events, are
calculated by the total cost of the services using the spend-based method of
EEIO emissions factors.INTRODUCTION
PLANET PROCESS GOVERNANCE ANNEX
PEOPLE
Forward-Looking
StatementsExternal
Assurance
GRI Content
IndexESRS Content

===== PAGE 92 =====
External Assurance
Category 3 – Fuel and Energy-Related Activities (Not Included in Scope 1 or
Scope 2)
This category includes emissions related to the production of fuels and
energy purchased and consumed by SHEIN in the reporting year that
are not included in scope 1 or scope 2, mainly upstream emissions and
transmission & distribution (T&D) losses. We continued applying the Scope 2
market-based approach to calculate this category, i.e., calculating upstream
emissions by the type of grid power, onsite photovoltaic power, and EACs
products (including photovoltaic and wind power) and nuclear energy that we
procured.
Emission factors applied for category 3 are mainly from the IEA Database,
Ecoinvent Database and the UK Department for Environment, Food & Rural
Affairs (DEFRA) Emission Factor Database according to energy type.
Category 4 – Upstream Transportation and Distribution
This category includes all upstream transportation and distribution
emissions, i.e. those which are directly purchased by SHEIN. This comprises
inbound transportation of purchased products to SHEIN operating sites,
transportation of sold products (i.e. outbound and of returns) with the
customers, and transportation between SHEIN’s warehouses.
This category mainly uses a distance-based methodology, as most of our
transportation service providers are not able to provide direct data of fuel
consumption. This method calculates carbon emissions primarily based on the transport distance by different types of transport, as well as the total
weight of the transports. The activity data, mainly including the total weight
of products and transport distances are directly sourced from the TMS
logistics system of SHEIN. The transport distances have been automatically
calculated through location using Google Maps API within the TMS system.
In a few scenarios where automatic calculation is not successful, a sampling
will be performed to obtain the corresponding distance data.
Emission factors applied for category 4 are mainly from the UK DEFRA
Emission Factor Database according to the transportation mode and data type.
In accordance with the SBTi requirement, all transport-related emissions
across all sectors must be reported on a well-to-wheel (WTW) basis in GHG
inventory.
Category 5 – Waste Generated in Operations
This category comprises the emissions attributed to industrial waste
generated in SHEIN operating facilities. This includes SHEIN’s warehouse
operations and Centre of Innovation for Garment Manufacturing in China.
The weight, type (composition) and waste treatment methods used for
calculation are provided by SHEIN’s recycling partners. The emissions
factors from the US Environmental Protection Agency Emission Factors for
Greenhouse Gas Inventories are used to calculate the emissions.Category 6 – Business Travel
This category comprises transportation utilized for business travel by
employees which had been paid or reimbursed by SHEIN in the reporting
year, i.e. regular employees, interns, and dispatched employees globally.
The emissions of business travel are calculated using two methods: for
business travel booked through SHEIN’s internal designated platform, the
total kilometres travelled by air and by car are used to calculate the emissions
using a distance-based method; for other business travel expenses, including
airfares, train tickets, and car rentals, etc., a spend-based method is
reporting year.
For business travel with distance data, the total kilometres by air or by car
are multiplied by the corresponding emission factor from the UK DEFRA
Emission Factor Database. The spent amount differentiated by type
of vehicle used is multiplied by the emission factor from the US EEIO
Commodity EF Database.
In accordance with the SBTi requirement, all transport-related emissions across
all sectors must be reported on a well-to-wheel (WTW) basis in GHG inventory.INTRODUCTION
PLANET PROCESS GOVERNANCE ANNEX
PEOPLE
Forward-Looking
StatementsExternal
Assurance
GRI Content
IndexESRS Content

===== PAGE 93 =====
Global fashion and lifestyle online retailer,
with more than 40 offices worldwide and a global
network of warehousing and logistics facilities.Material Topic Potential Actual
Positive Impact
Scale
Irremediability
LikelihoodLikelihood
(i.e. how possible)Environmental Related Environmental Related
Social Related Social Related
Material Topic Opportunity Risk
Forward-Looking
StatementsExternal
Assurance
GRI Content
IndexESRS Content

===== PAGE 94 =====
Material Impacts, Risks, and Opportunities
The material impacts, risks, and opportunities were mapped to the topical ESRS E1 Climate Change, E5 Resource Use and Circular Economy, S2 Workers in the Value Chain, S4 Consumers and End-Users, and G1 Business Conduct, all of which
are covered in this sustainability and social impact report. The tables below provide concise descriptions of our material impacts, risks, and opportunities. For detailed information on how we manage and mitigate these risks, please refer to the
relevant sections under “People”, “Planet”, “Process”, and “Governance” as indicated below.
E1 Climate Change
Type Location in Value Chain Time Horizonii
Upstream Own Operations Downstream Short term Medium term Long term
Value Chain GHG Emissions
Our carbon footprint is predominantly comprised of Scope 3 emissions, which are
largely attributable to supply chain activities, transportation, and other activities
beyond SHEIN’s direct control. SHEIN actively collaborates with our suppliers and
other value chain partners to address these areas. Actual Negative Impact
• • • • •
GHG Emissions from Own Operations
SHEIN’s own operations contribute to GHG emissions, primarily from electricity usage
in our offices and warehouses. To mitigate this impact, SHEIN aims to better manage
and reduce electricity consumption while expanding our use of renewable energy. Actual Negative Impact
• • • •
Physical Effects of Changing Climate
Exposure to changing conditions in SHEIN’s regions of operations may result in acute
and chronic physical risks, as modelled in the Risilience Hazard Atlas.iii For more
SHEIN’s business model has been designed to optimise production, resulting in
a more efficient use of resources. This approach has contributed to our ability to
minimise waste and maximise returns, giving us a competitive advantage.Actual Positive Impact
• • • • •
Waste Generated in Production
As a large-scale e-commerce retailer, SHEIN faces the challenge of managing
significant waste streams, primarily composed of textile offcuts and packaging
materials within our supply chain. While our on-demand business model inherently
reduces waste from excess unsold inventory, we have also adopted an automated
fabric management system within our supply chain to increase accuracy of fabrics
required for production and reduce excess fabric waste.Actual Negative Impact
• • • • • •
ii Time horizons are defined as: Short-term (within the current reporting year), Medium-term (from the end of the short-term reporting period up to 5 years.), and Long-term (more than 5 years).
iii The Risilience Hazard Atlas is a feature of Risilience, a climate risk and analytics platform developed by the University of Cambridge Centre for Risk Studies. The Atlas visually maps and analyses global climate hazards, enabling companies to assess their exposure and build resilience.Materiality Assessment Approach and MethodologyINTRODUCTION
PLANET PROCESS GOVERNANCE ANNEX
PEOPLE
Forward-Looking
StatementsExternal
Assurance
GRI Content
IndexESRS Content

===== PAGE 95 =====
E5 Resource Use and Circular Economy
Type Location in Value Chain Time Horizon
Upstream Own Operations Downstream Short term Medium term Long term
Waste Generated by Customers
Customer behaviour and more specifically, how our customers may choose to use
their clothing before discarding at the end of life is beyond SHEIN’s immediate control.
Nonetheless, we are launching a series of initiatives to minimise the environmental
footprint of products that we put into the market and to encourage our customers to
adopt behaviours that extend the life cycle of their SHEIN clothing, including increasing
our use of recycled materials, launching a peer-to-peer resale clothing platform, SHEIN
Exchange, and piloting take-back programs to collect used clothing for recycling. Actual Negative Impact
• • •
Reputational Risk arising from Perceived ‘Buy-and-Toss’ Culture among Customers
The public perception that SHEIN promotes a culture of disposable fashion amongst
our customers has the potential to negatively impact the brand’s long-term reputation
and sales. We seek to encourage our customers to engage in more circular behaviour
and have launched initiatives such as SHEIN Exchange to support this. We have also
conducted surveys to better understand our customers’ habits and how they engage
with circularity.Risk
• • • • •
Risk from Evolving Extended Producer Responsibility Regulations
Opportunity to Capture Growing Demand for Sustainable Fashion
SHEIN is uniquely positioned to drive industry-wide change by demonstrating the
viability of reducing, reusing, and recycling through the use of innovative technologies,
alongside supply chain optimisation. Successfully implementing alternative production
technologies, including in textile-to-textile recycled materials, will allow SHEIN to
differentiate ourselves as customer demand for environmentally responsible fashion
increases.Opportunity
• • • • •Materiality Assessment Approach and MethodologyINTRODUCTION
Forward-Looking
StatementsExternal
Assurance
GRI Content
IndexESRS Content

===== PAGE 96 =====
By strategically leveraging our market influence, SHEIN has the potential to influence
material producers and other key supply chain partners to adopt ethical and
environmentally responsible choices, generating positive impacts for both people and
the planet.Potential Positive Impact
• • • •
Forward-Looking
StatementsExternal
Assurance
GRI Content
IndexESRS Content

===== PAGE 97 =====
and brands. SHEIN has implemented due diligence processes to ensure compliance
with applicable protocols across various jurisdictions, encompassing mandatory
chemical safety requirements, supplemented by sample testing of products, as well as
documentation and tracking of Marketplace sellers’ compliance with protocols.Actual Negative Impact
• • • • • •
Operational and Reputational Risk due to Non-Compliance with Product Quality
and Chemical Safety
Operational and reputational risks may arise if products do not meet the various
national standards where our products are sold. To uphold customer expectations and
Forward-Looking
StatementsExternal
Assurance
GRI Content
IndexESRS Content

===== PAGE 98 =====
Forward-Looking
StatementsExternal
Assurance
GRI Content
IndexESRS Content

===== PAGE 99 =====
Ensure availability and
sustainable management of
water and sanitation for all• SHEIN’s supplier energy efficiency and manufacturing innovation projects focus on improving process efficiencies to
reduce energy, water, and chemical usage, as well as waste generated in the manufacturing process.
• SHEIN is expanding its use of digital thermal transfer printing, a zero-water-waste printing method; and of Cool Transfer
Denim Printing, which reduces water usage by over 70% compared to conventional denim manufacturing methods.
Ensure access to affordable,
reliable, sustainable and
modern energy for all• SHEIN implements measures to optimise energy consumption across SHEIN-operated facilities, such as switching to more
energy-efficient lighting and implementing timed lighting and air conditioning systems.
• SHEIN promotes the adoption of rooftop solar energy in our supply chain by developing custom solar PV installation plans
for suppliers’ facilities, and by providing cash incentives to support installations.
Promote sustained, inclusive
sustainable industrialization
and foster innovation• The SHEIN X programme helps independent designers launch fashion collections by handling aspects such as product
development, marketing, and logistics.
• SHEIN’s Centre of Innovation for Garment Manufacturing develops waste reduction and efficiency enhancing technologies
which can be implemented across the supply chain.
• SHEIN continues to refine its on-demand business model enabled by a digitalised supply chain, to keep excess inventory
waste low.Our Contributions to the UN SDGsINTRODUCTION
PLANET PROCESS GOVERNANCE ANNEX
PEOPLE
Forward-Looking
StatementsExternal
Assurance
GRI Content
IndexESRS Content

===== PAGE 100 =====
consumption and production
patterns• The evoluSHEIN by Design product initiative seeks to promote responsible use of resources across the product
manufacturing and delivery process, from choice of materials, to selection of suppliers, and choice of packaging.
• SHEIN’s peer-to-peer resale platform, SHEIN Exchange, currently offers our customers in France, Germany, the UK, and
the USA, an opportunity to extend the life cycle of their products.
• SHEIN has run clothing takeback programmes in several markets, and downcycles or remakes internal textile waste into
insulation material or corporate products such as canvas bags.
Take urgent action to combat
climate change and its
impacts• In 2024, SHEIN secured approval from the SBTi for our near-term science-based emissions reduction targets.
• SHEIN also committed to setting long-term emissions reduction targets with the SBTi in line with reaching net-zero by 2050,
and submitted these targets for SBTi’s validation. Our net-zero target was approved by the SBTi in May 2025.
Protect, restore and promote
sustainable use of terrestrial
ecosystems, sustainably
manage forests, combat
desertification, and halt and
reverse land degradation and
halt biodiversity loss• SHEIN is committed to ensuring that all directly-sourced viscose used in SHEIN-branded products is from producers that do
not use wood from Ancient and Endangered Forests by 2025.
• SHEIN has piloted the use of lower-impact Next Gen MMCF alternatives, such as Lenzing TENCEL™ Modal and Regracell®
materials.
US$6.4 million to support local organisations driving positive community impact.
• The SHEIN Foundation was established in 2024, dedicated to supporting organisations which are committed to improving
lives in communities, protecting biodiversity and advancing sustainable change.
• SHEIN supported the Or Foundation’s work in Ghana, and made grants to The UnTours Foundation to support textile waste
management efforts in Cambodia.
• SHEIN Foundation supported Africa Collect Textiles Foundation to promote the donation of used textiles and recycling in
Kenya.Our Contributions to the UN SDGsINTRODUCTION
PLANET PROCESS GOVERNANCE ANNEX
Forward-Looking
StatementsExternal
Assurance
GRI Content
IndexESRS Content

===== PAGE 101 =====
2-3 Reporting Period, Frequency and Contact Point About This Report, page 5
2-4 Restatements of Information About This Report, page 5
2-5 External Assurance About This Report, page 5
Annex: External Assurance, page 77-92
2-6 Activities, Value-Chain and Other Business Relationships About Us, page 4
2-7 Employees People: Equitable Empowerment > Nurture Our People, page 18
2-23 Policy Commitments People: Equitable Empowerment, page 14
Planet: Collective Resilience, page 43
Process: Waste-Less Innovation, page 62
Governance: Accountable Leadership, page 72INTRODUCTION
PLANET PROCESS GOVERNANCE ANNEX
Forward-Looking
StatementsExternal
Assurance
GRI Content
IndexESRS Content

===== PAGE 102 =====
General Disclosures 20212-24 Embedding policy commitments People: Equitable Empowerment, page 14
Planet: Collective Resilience, page 43
Process: Waste-Less Innovation, page 62
Governance: Accountable Leadership, page 72
2-25 Processes to remediate negative impacts People: Equitable Empowerment, page 14
Planet: Collective Resilience, page 43
Process: Waste-Less Innovation, page 62
Governance: Accountable Leadership, page 72
2-26 Mechanisms for seeking advice and raising concerns People: Equitable Empowerment > Enable Self-Expression for All, page 17
Annex: Materiality Assessment Approach and Methodology, page 93
3-2 List of material topics Materiality: Identifying Priority Areas, page 8
Climate Change
GRI 3:
Material Topics 20213-3 Management of material topics Planet: Collective Resilience > Our Climate Risks and Impact, page 45
Energy Management & Emissions
GRI 3:
Material Topics 20213-3 Management of material topics Planet: Collective Resilience > Decarbonise Our Value Chain, page 46-54
GRI 302:
Energy 2016GRI 302-1 Energy consumed within the organization Planet: Collective Resilience > Decarbonise Our Value Chain, page 46-48
GRI 302-4 Reduction of energy consumption Planet: Collective Resilience > Decarbonise Our Value Chain, page 48INTRODUCTION
PLANET PROCESS GOVERNANCE ANNEX
PEOPLE
Forward-Looking
StatementsExternal
Assurance
GRI Content
IndexESRS Content

===== PAGE 103 =====
GRI Content Index
GRI Standard Disclosure Title Location and Page Number
GRI 305:
Emissions 2016GRI 305-1 Direct (Scope 1) GHG Emissions Planet: Collective Resilience > Decarbonise Our Value Chain > Our Carbon Footprint,
page 46-48
GRI 305-2 Energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions Planet: Collective Resilience > Decarbonise Our Value Chain > Our Carbon Footprint,
page 46-48
GRI 305-3 Other indirect (Scope 3) GHG emissions Planet: Collective Resilience > Decarbonise Our Value Chain > Our Carbon Footprint,
page 46-47, 50-53
GRI 305-5 Reduction of GHG emissions Planet: Collective Resilience > Decarbonise Our Value Chain, page 48-54
Waste and Hazardous Materials Management
GRI 3:
Material Topics 20213-3 Management of material topics Process: Waste-Less Innovation, page 63-71
Planet: Collective Resilience > Decarbonise Our Value Chain >
Our Decarbonisation Roadmap, page 52
GRI 306:
Waste 2020GRI 306-2 Management of significant waste – related impacts Process: Waste-Less Innovation, page 64
GRI 306-3 Waste generated Planet: Collective Resilience > Decarbonise Our Value Chain >
Our Decarbonisation Roadmap, page 52
GRI 306-4 Waste diverted from disposal Process: Waste-Less Innovation > Design Circular Systems, page 65, 67-68
Process: Waste-Less Innovation > Accelerate Sustainable Innovation, page 69-71
Planet: Collective Resilience > Decarbonise Our Value Chain >
Our Decarbonisation Roadmap, page 51-52
GRI 306-5 Waste directed to disposal Planet: Collective Resilience > Decarbonise Our Value Chain >
Our Decarbonisation Roadmap, page 51-52
Product Design and Life Cycle Management
GRI 3:
Material Topics 20213-3 Management of material topics Planet: Collective Resilience > Source Responsible Materials, page 55-58
GRI 301:
Materials 2016GRI 301-1 Materials used by weight of volume Planet: Collective Resilience > Source Responsible Materials, page 55
GRI 301-2 Recycled input materials used Planet: Collective Resilience > Source Responsible Materials, page 55
Planet: Collective Resilience > Our Targets and Aspirations, page 44INTRODUCTION
PLANET PROCESS GOVERNANCE ANNEX
PEOPLE
Forward-Looking
StatementsExternal
Assurance
GRI Content
IndexESRS Content

===== PAGE 104 =====
Material Topics 20213-3 Management of material topics People: Equitable Empowerment > Cultivate an Ethical Supplier Network, page 23-33
GRI 308:
Supplier Environmental
Assessment 2016GRI 308-1 New suppliers that were screened using environmental criteria People: Equitable Empowerment > Cultivate an Ethical Supplier Network, page 28-29
GRI 308-2 Negative environmental impacts in the supply chain and actions taken People: Equitable Empowerment > Cultivate an Ethical Supplier Network, page 27-29
GRI 408:
Child Labor 2016GRI 408-1 Operations and suppliers at significant risk for incidents of child labour People: Equitable Empowerment > Cultivate an Ethical Supplier Network, page 28-30GRI Content IndexINTRODUCTION
Forward-Looking
StatementsExternal
Assurance
GRI Content
IndexESRS Content

===== PAGE 105 =====
GRI 414-2 Negative social impacts in the supply chain and actions taken People: Equitable Empowerment > Cultivate an Ethical Supplier Network, page 23-31
Disclosures for topics SHEIN is monitoring
Water and Wastewater Management
GRI 303:
Water and Effluents 2018GRI 303-1 Interactions with water as a shared resource Planet: Collective Resilience > Protect Nature and Biodiversity, page 60-61
Process: Waste-Less Innovation > Water-Less Innovation, page 64
GRI 303-2 Management of water discharge-related impacts Planet: Collective Resilience > Protect Nature and Biodiversity, page 60-61
GRI 303-5 Water consumption Planet: Collective Resilience > Protect Nature and Biodiversity, page 60
Occupational Health and Safety
GRI 403:
Forward-Looking
StatementsExternal
Assurance
GRI Content
IndexESRS Content

===== PAGE 106 =====
issued by EFRAG. SHEIN’s Sustainability and Social Impact Report focuses
on material sustainability matters where SHEIN may have the largest impact
on the environment, society, and economy, or where SHEIN is most exposed
to significant financial risks and opportunities.
The materiality of sustainability matters and topics presented in this statement
value chain, as well as new disclosures and metrics to describe and address
identified material impacts, risks, and opportunities. Uncertainties and accounting estimates
The reporting of certain information and data points, such as our Scope 3
emissions, involves the use of assumptions and estimates due to inherent
uncertainties. Any assumptions, estimates, changes to accounting policies
and restatements are disclosed in the respective sections of the Sustainability
Forward-Looking
StatementsExternal
Assurance
GRI Content
IndexESRS Content

===== PAGE 107 =====
Forward-Looking
StatementsExternal
Assurance
GRI Content
IndexESRS Content

===== PAGE 108 =====
ESRS Content Index
Environmental disclosures
ESRS disclosure Disclosure requirement Section Page
ESRS E1 – Climate Change
ESRS 2
GOV-3Integration of sustainability-related performance in incentive schemes ESG Governance Approach 11
SBM-3Material impacts, risks and opportunities and their interaction with strategy and business model Materiality Assessment Approach and Methodology 94
ESRS 2
IRO-1Description of the processes to identify and assess material climate-related impacts, risks and opportunities Materiality: Identifying Priority Areas
Materiality Assessment Approach and Methodology6-8
93
E1-1 Transition plan for climate change mitigation Planet: Collective Resilience > Our Climate Risks and Impact
Planet: Collective Resilience > Decarbonise Our Value Chain45
46-54
E1-3 Actions and resources in relation to climate change policies Planet: Collective Resilience > Decarbonise Our Value Chain 48-54
E1-4 Targets related to climate change mitigation and adaptation Planet: Collective Resilience
Planet: Collective Resilience > Decarbonise Our Value Chain44
46-54
E1-5 Energy consumption and mix Planet: Collective Resilience > Decarbonise Our Value Chain 48
E1-6 Gross scopes 1, 2, 3 and Total GHG emissions Planet: Collective Resilience > Decarbonise Our Value Chain 47
ESRS E5 – Resource Use and Circular Economy
ESRS 2
IRO-1Description of the processes to identify and assess material resource use and circular economy-related impacts,
risks and opportunitiesMateriality: Identifying Priority Areas
Materiality Assessment Approach and Methodology6-8
95
E5-2 Actions and resources related to resource use and circular economy Planet: Collective Resilience > Decarbonise Our Value Chain
Planet: Collective Resilience > Source Responsible Materials52
55-58
E5-4 Resource inflows Planet: Collective Resilience > Source Responsible Materials 52
E5-5 Resource outflows Planet: Collective Resilience > Source Responsible Materials
Planet: Collective Resilience > Source Responsible Materials52
55-58INTRODUCTION
PLANET PROCESS GOVERNANCE ANNEX
Forward-Looking
StatementsExternal
Assurance
GRI Content
IndexESRS Content

===== PAGE 109 =====
Forward-Looking
StatementsExternal
Assurance
GRI Content
IndexESRS Content

===== PAGE 110 =====
Forward-Looking
StatementsExternal
Assurance
GRI Content
IndexESRS Content