Our climate governance is aimed at ensuring that the impacts, risks and opportunities linked to climate are adequately tackled to meet the challenges posed by climate change.
Our sustainability strategy and our climate change policies are approved by the Board of Directors and integrated into our Company’s business model and decision-making processes.
Our Climate Transition Plan establishes our targets for advancing towards a low-carbon economy.
To ensure that our sustainability actions are aligned with these targets, the Board of Directors —through the Sustainability Committee— carries out quarterly reviews.
Climate governance follows the same processes and is carried out through the same bodies as are the rest of sustainability-related matters.
At Inditex we promote mechanisms to advance in achieving our decarbonisation targets, such as our variable remuneration system.
This system links our workforce remuneration to the attainment of the Company's objectives, including our sustainability commitments.
Both the Chief Executive Officer and Senior Management have specific, annual and multi-year incentives associated with climate change mitigation.
Since the adoption of our science-based targets (SBTs) in 2020, scientific knowledge on climate change and its effects has evolved, and so has our ambition and that of our stakeholders.
In July 2023 we unveiled our new sustainability commitments, that included more exacting decarbonisation targets, which we submitted to the Science Based Target Initiative (SBTi) for approval.
In 2024, our new SBTs were approved by SBTi in accordance with the Paris Agreement emissions reduction pathway —limiting the average temperature increase of the Earth’s surface to 1.5ºC above pre-industrial levels—.
Our goal is to reduce our scope 1, 2 and 3 emissions by 53% by 2030 with respect to 2018.
To achieve this we will pare our absolute scope 1 and 2 emissions by 95% and our scope 3 emissions by 51% by 2030.
As an intermediate milestone to keep up with our progress, we have set ourselves the goal of reducing scope 1, 2 and 3 emissions by 20% by 2027, as compared to 2018.
SBTi also approved our global net-zero emissions target by 2040, thereby slashing our scope 1, 2 and 3 emissions by 90% as compared to 2018.
The remaining 10% will be neutralised by eliminating greenhouse gas emissions, as established in the SBTi guidelines.
In 2023 we published our new Climate Transition Plan, which evidences Inditex’s commitment to a more efficient and circular fashion industry, more capable of tackling the climate challenge.
The Plan includes our action lines and intermediate milestones, as well as the resources we estimate will be needed to attain our targets on the pathway to net-zero emissions by 2040.
Our Transition Plan is consistent with our SBTs, pursuing a GHG emissions reduction pathway aligned with the Paris Agreement ambition of limiting global warming to 1.5ºC over pre-industrial levels.
In drawing up the Plan we used the ‘announced policies’ emissions scenario, given the current level of climate policy ambition around the world.
This pathway envisages the global economy decarbonising at a slower rate than Inditex’s reduction commitments, outlined in our Climate Transition Plan, which aim to reach net zero by 2040.
In accordance with this commitment, Inditex’s future emissions pathways factor in the effect of our own emissions reduction initiatives, as specified in the Transition Plan, and the effect of the announced industry decarbonisation in relation to scope 2 and 3 emissions.
The decarbonisation levers included in our Climate Transition Plan encompass a series of actions in our operations and value chain, focusing on: Main decarbonisation levers Use of improved energy sources Key actions / Own operations: self-consumption, power purchase agreements, sustainable building.
Reduction Optimisation of energy management Promoting circularity and the use of lower-impact materials / Supply Chain Environmental Transformation Plan / Sustainability Innovation Hub / Fibres Plan / Pre-Owned Promoting and fostering regenerative practices Neutralisation Application of other nature-based solutions Application of technological solutions Mitigation beyond the value chain Fostering biodiversity and balanced ecosystems as well as community well-being / Fibres Plan / Cotton Strategy / Revitalisation of soils and ecosystems to sustain communities and biodiversity / Conservation, protection and restoration of ecosystems and biodiversity.
Our Chief Executive Officer is responsible for defining and approving the sustainability strategy approved by the Board of Directors.
In this regard, in particular the Climate Transition Plan was also presented to the Social Advisory Board and the Sustainability Committee, and announced to our shareholders in the General Meeting, thereby ensuring the involvement of our governing bodies in its review and approval.
Although our main activity is not yet included in the Taxonomy Regulation, we endeavour to implement measures to align our current and future actions with the Taxonomy's technical screening criteria in the activities to which it applies, such as in store refurbishments and openings, construction and refurbishment of corporate headquarters, Group logistics centres and other own facilities, and electricity generation from wind and photovoltaic power.
We also have investment plans to align ongoing projects that are scheduled for completion in future years.
Throughout 2024, we have continued to strengthen our commitment to responsible resource management —in particular of energy— and to reducing GHG emissions, through initiatives like: / Fostering self-consumption and power purchase agreements.
Using renewable energy in our own operations and in the supply chain.
Launching the Supply Chain Environmental Transformation Plan 2024-2027.
Further headway in our 2030 Fibres Plan.
Using alternative fuels rather than fossil fuels in maritime transport.
25% reduction in water consumption in our supply chain with respect to 2020 levels.
100% lower-impact polyester and linen.
Circularity services such as Zara Pre-Owned in key markets.
Use of at least 90% alternative fuels in maritime transport.
Reduce our emissions by more than 20% (at our value chain and own operations) compared to 2018.
Triple our capacity of renewable energy generation in 2023 in our central offices, headquarters and distribution centres.
40% of our own global electricity consumption will come from self-consumption and other mechanisms like PPAs and VPPAs.
Reduce our emissions by 53% (at our value chain and own operations) compared to 2018.
Use only lower-impact textile fibres.
Protect, restore, regenerate, or take other management approaches for the improvement of biodiversity in an area of 5 million hectares.
Eliminating coal from our supply chain.
50% renewable electricity in manufacturing processes in our supply chain.
60% of our own global electricity consumption will come from self-consumption and other mechanisms like PPAs and VPPAs.
Net-zero emissions, reducing at least 90% of our carbon footprint with respect to 2018.
100% renewable electricity in manufacturing processes in our supply chain.
The Group has not been excluded from the EU Paris-aligned benchmarks, given that the requirements pursuant to Article 12 of Delegated Regulation (EU) 2020/1818 are not applicable.
The Group’s commitment to mitigating the effects of climate change are most notably reflected in our Climate Transition Plan.
This understanding of the effects of climate change is also related to our annual materiality assessment, in which we identify a list of climate-related impacts, risks and opportunities, by actively listening to our stakeholders.
We also carry out an analysis of climate scenarios, through which we studied five emissions pathways and determined the potential impact of the physical and transition risks in our activity and our own facilities and those of our value chain in the short, medium and long term.
One of our main impacts are atmospheric greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions in our value chain.
We identified Inditex’s current and possible future sources of GHG emissions, in both our own operations and the value chain, in accordance with the guidelines of the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC – Guidelines for National Greenhouse Gas Inventories, 2006) and the World Resources Institute’s GHG Protocol (2015).
In calculating and reporting Inditex’s current and estimated future GHG emissions (according to our Climate Transition Plan), we follow the same international guidelines.
E1.I1 Greenhouse gas emissions (GHG) I / Own operations / Value chain Transversal policies: / Sustainability Policy / Sustainability Stakeholder Relations Policy Specific policies: / Energy Policy / Ecosystems and Biodiversity Policy / Water Policy.
E1.I2 Energy consumption I / Own operations / Value chain.
E1.R1 Climate-related physical and transition risks R / Own operations / Extended value chain.
Climate-related opportunities also affect other environmental aspects and dimensions, we will include them in the following environmental chapters of this Report.
Such is the case of the efficient consumption of natural resources, new business models, the transformation of the sector and innovation, among others.
As for more complex opportunities like the strategic transformation of the Company and its resilience, we will continue to analyse them with a view to providing more information in future reporting exercises.
Based on our identification and assessment of climate-related impacts, risks and opportunities, we adapt our sustainability strategy in the short, medium and long term, which applies to all our business areas.
In 2023 we developed our new Climate Transition Plan, which evidences our commitment to a more efficient and circular fashion industry capable of tackling the climate challenge.
To make headway in these targets, in 2024, we rely on the Fibres Plan and the Supply Chain Environmental Transformation Plan.
At Inditex we are convinced that fostering a culture of sustainability in all areas of our company is key to making constant progress towards our sustainability targets.
The Sustainable Fashion School and Changemakers are the product of this vision.
At Inditex we take an integrated approach to risks.
By analysing climate scenarios we identify and assess risks and opportunities to ensure the resilience of our strategy in the short, medium and long term.
This analysis includes both high emissions pathways and those in line with the 1.5ºC emissions pathways.
To quantify the potential climate-related physical and transition risks, we use a representation of the Group.
It is known as a ‘digital twin’ and is updated annually with information on financial estimates, facilities of our own and our value chain, raw materials used in our products, a geographic breakdown of the business and the Group’s scope 1, 2 and 3 greenhouse gas emissions.
The result of the scenario methodology represents the potential losses in estimated cash flows in terms of Earning Value at Risk.
Due to the nature and long-term horizon of climate-related risks, especially in the physical dimension, the Group needs to estimate impacts over time horizons longer than five years.
For this purpose, once the Group's expected cash flows for the short-term horizon (0-5 years) have been established, these financial estimates are used to assess the impacts on the different climatic conditions in the medium term (5-10 years) and the long term (more than 10 years).
These time horizons take into account the useful life of our assets and the Group’s planning and business cycles.
Physical risks Acute Caused by natural events, including more severe extreme weather events, like cyclones, hurricanes and floods, among others.
Chronic Long-term changes in weather patterns that may cause an increase in sea level, chronic heat waves or changes to seasons, among other events.
These physical risks may cause damage to material goods and disrupt the supply chain in the following scenarios: / Changes in the availability and quality of water resources.
Vulnerability in respect of other specific resources or raw materials on which Inditex depends, such as cotton, viscose, etc.
Potential disruption in shipping routes.
Workers health and safety.
Transition risks Market The markets where we operate may be affected by climate change in different ways, but one of the main ones is through changes in the supply and demand of certain raw materials we use in our operating processes, and the products we sell to our customers.
Regulatory and legal Government policy actions on climate change continue to evolve towards a low-carbon economy.
Generally speaking, their objectives fall into two categories: initiatives aimed at reducing greenhouse gas emissions or policies designed to promote climate change adaptation.
In this scenario, the Group's carbon footprint throughout its value chain (scope 1, 2 and 3 emissions) could be subject to the price of carbon.
Another risk to consider in the context of transition comes from the eventual legal liability of companies, depending on the evolution of the socioeconomic context, social perception and the scientific development of climate attribution.
Technology In today's fast-evolving technological landscape, the Group may be exposed to the possibility of having to undertake sizeable investments in operations and infrastructure to adapt to climate change.
It will also have to manage the depreciation and/or obsolescence of existing assets in its own operations that are not suited to a low-carbon economy.
The members of our value chain face the same risk, which could eventually be passed on to the Group through higher sales and operating costs.
Reputation As the pace of society’s transition to a low-carbon economy picks up and public opinion changes, the Group’s individual contribution may come under increasing scrutiny, especially if the Group’s transition, or that of our industry, towards a low-carbon economy fails to meet the market’s expectations.
Through scenario analysis, we can learn about the potential impacts of climate change on our company.
This knowledge can be applied to strategic planning, risk management and the evaluation of our resilience.
In 2024, we made further headway in the analysis of the resilience of our value chain so we could include in our analysis the mitigation measures that result from implementing our programmes to reduce our carbon footprint.
The emissions pathways used in our analysis of scenarios correspond to the latest data published in the Sixth Assessment Report from the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC).
To assess the potential impacts on the Company stemming from physical and transition risks, we used five scenarios with five different emissions pathways: / No policies (>4ºC by 2100) / Current policies (3ºC by 2100) / Announced policies (2.5ºC by 2100) / Paris Agreement (2ºC by 2070) / Paris Agreement ambition (1.5ºC by 2050).
Each pathway develops a socio-economic narrative towards regulatory changes, energy outlooks or technological advances on the basis of existing data, probability of occurrence and severity.
With respect to total estimated risk, the table below shows the result of the physical and transition dimensions in each of the pathways9 in the short term: No policies >4ºC 57% 43% Current policies 3ºC 51% 49% Announced policies 2.5ºC Paris Agreement 2ºC 44% 56% 25% 75% Paris Agreement ambition 1.5ºC 18% 82% Transition Physical.
In the estimates used to measure certain assets, liabilities, income, expenses and obligations reported therein, climate change related-risks were considered, in particular those associated with the scenarios for those assessments.
There are three possible types (dimensions) of physical risks from climate change: / Acute risks: caused by extreme weather events.
Chronic risks: the result of gradual changes in long-term weather patterns.
In some cases, there may be a combination of both acute and chronic.
In 2024, the analysis of physical risks was conducted on over 15,700 own and third-party facilities in our value chain.
The facilities analysed are of different types: factories, logistics centres, offices, airports, ports, logistics hubs, stores, etc.
In the case of our own facilities, we estimate the physical damage associated with extreme weather phenomena and the resulting financial losses, as well as operating losses due to reduced operating capacity and efficiency.
These climate phenomena are considered in the long-, medium- and short-term analysis: heatwave, freeze, water stress, river flooding, coastal flooding, 'extratropical' storm, tropical storm and flash flooding.
The choice of these physical phenomena is based on Cambridge University's Centre for Risk Studies relevance criteria for our business.
In order to weigh the financial impacts of extreme weather events caused by climate change, the changing probability and severity of each event is used to quantify the increase or reduction of the physical impacts expected at facility level.
The base-case scenario also makes it possible to assess existing risks, especially water stress in the catchment areas where the Group's own or third-party facilities are located, particularly in Spain, where the Group's main assets are concentrated.
Over the course of this year we have experienced nine natural disasters in our stores due to extreme weather phenomena (four in Spain, one in Italy, one in Mexico, two in the United States and one in Austria), mainly due to torrential rain, heavy snow or hail, hurricanes or tornadoes.
Although they caused damage to our stores, their impact on the Group was immaterial.
This scenario envisages the possibility that extreme or catastrophic weather events may reduce the productivity of the Group's activities, disrupt its normal performance and/or increase the costs of operations and processes.
The vulnerability of facilities to the various climate threats depends on their type and/or their importance for the value chain.
According to these attributes, the scenario translates into different impacts and speeds at which the facilities can recover normal operating conditions.
The disruption may trigger a decrease in expected cash flows due to a decline in Group sales depending on the operations’ level of dependence on the affected facility or facilities, possible impairment of property, plant and equipment and loss of inventories.
Most of the facilities are related to the supply chain and our commercial network so there are technical contingency systems in place that would mitigate the consequences of a disruption or shutdown.
Continuous review systems, along with the insurance policies, would cover loss of profit and resulting expenses.
In the specific case of logistics centres, they have been configured so as to be able to take on storage and distribution capacity for other centres in the event of a contingency caused by extreme weather events.
All areas of the Group are geared towards satisfying customer needs and guaranteeing the best shopping experience, which is why our activity begins by actively listening to our customers and identifying their demands and expectations.
Flexible, integrated and innovative business model that affords a competitive advantage when it comes to analysis and response in the short, medium and long terms.
This scenario envisages changes in long-term weather patterns affecting the agricultural productivity of the crops from which the various textile fibres used by the Group are derived (cotton, linen, wool, leather and man-made cellulosic fibres, among others).
The effect of such phenomena would be a potential change in the supply and availability of raw materials.
Losing the supply of these raw materials would disrupt business, potentially resulting in a decrease in sales if the shortage caused by the event cannot be recovered and/or selling costs rise due to a reduced or absent supply of the raw materials.
We have put a Climate Transition Plan in place to drive industry transformation and make progress in the fight against climate change.
Our Fibres Plan contains stringent commitments for the use of lower-impact materials.
The Group’s efforts and work to foster the development of technologies to improve the sustainability of the raw materials and their subsequent recycling, with particular attention to innovation in recycled fibres of textile origin that allow reducing dependence on virgin raw materials.
The Group’s collaboration with other organisations and institutions to increase the range of materials with better environmental performance, which make more efficient use of natural resources, and with recycled content.
Transition risks vary significantly depending on the level of ambition of each pathway analysed and affect all areas of our business.
To calculate their financial impact, we have examined five dimensions of transition risks in the short, medium and long term: / Regulatory / Legal liability / Technology / Market / Reputation.
We have found that the largest potential short-term impact on our operations and business model derives from regulatory risk, due to potential policy action by governments to tackle climate change in the transition to a low-carbon economy.
Establishing an explicit carbon price is a key mechanism to incentivise the transition to a low-carbon economy.
Carbon prices used in our models vary from country to country with the aim of covering all global emissions by 2025.
In this scenario, the Group would pay a price for the emissions generated throughout its value chain.
The Group's carbon footprint in each of the markets in which it operates is considered and the carbon price in each jurisdiction is applied.
The Group’s financial impact stems from the increase in production and distribution costs, and the cost of raw material procurements.
We have put a Climate Transition Plan in place to drive industry transformation and make progress in the fight against climate change.
We have therefore launched two key strategic plans: the Supply Chain Environmental Transformation Plan and the Fibres Plan to advance towards a low-carbon economy model and meet our sustainability targets.
This scenario considers developments in climate-related litigation, a consequence of scientific advances that allow climate change to be linked to specific events, paving the way for potential attributions of liability.
The intensity of lawsuits related to GHG emissions and climate change that the Group may experience will vary depending on the different emissions pathways.
Their probability of occurrence and potential impact will also vary depending on the estimated impact (settlement, legal costs, severance pay, etc.).
Inditex’s Climate Transition Plan, Supply Chain Environmental Transformation Plan and Fibres Plan.
Inditex's Sustainability Policy, which defines the principles for integrating sustainable practices, in keeping with the Planetary Boundaries and with respect for human rights and those of other living beings, throughout our business model, activities and stakeholder relations.
Solid Compliance Model in place and a robust corporate governance structure that ensures compliance with regulations, guidelines and best practices in this connection.
This scenario analyses how the Group’s competitiveness might be affected by the development and use of new technologies that are less GHG-emissions intensive, considering their operating costs and the demand for our products.
Stemming from the depreciation and liquidation value of assets, additional CapEx and increased raw materials costs.
Innovation is an inherent and transversal value throughout the Inditex business model, which is why we collaborate with our suppliers and other organisations to find innovative solutions that may be applied throughout the value chain and life cycle of our products.
The Inditex’s Sustainability Innovation Hub is a clear evidence seeking to foster the circular economy, contribute to decarbonisation and maximise environmentally-friendly development.
This scenario envisages an increasing market interest in sustainable products and services.
Potential changes in supply and demand patterns jeopardise the Group's market share and cost of capital.
The demand impacts are expressed as the loss of earnings and/or failure to comply with growth targets.
Investor sentiment translates into an increase in the cost of capital and in the cost of financing.
The various emissions pathways determine the scale of these impacts.
The Group's commitment to customers also implies anticipating their demands in diversity, sustainability or transparency matters, among others, while seeking to involve them in the efforts and progress that the Group makes around these issues.
Sustainability strategy with a focus on reducing the environmental impact through the Fibres Plan and Supply Chain Environmental Transformation Plan.
This scenario considers a context with no progress towards a low-carbon economy, valuing the effects of public opinion, climate activism and investors’ perceptions.
The impacts on demand are materialised through the loss of earnings and/or failure to comply with growth targets.
Market sentiment translates into impacts on the capital and financing costs.
Inditex’s Sustainability roadmap includes ambitious targets and actions aimed at achieving the long-term goal as a lever of transformation.
The Group collaborates with all the actors in the value chain and with stakeholders to tackle global challenges from a holistic standpoint.
This analysis shows that none of the Company’s activities or assets were found to be incompatible with the climate transition, or require significant efforts to guarantee that compatibility.
Based on our analysis of future climate scenarios, we obtained an estimate of the short- (0-5 years), medium- (5-10 years) and long- (more than 10 years) term physical and transitional climate-related risks.
The impact of each scenario represents a cash flow at risk deriving from each of the possible emissions pathways, adjusted by the scenario’s probability of occurrence and without yet including mitigation measures.
In the next five years, the financial impacts of physical risk are relatively limited to disruptions at key facilities, mainly throughout our value chain, in current policy pathways and announced policies.
The probability that acute events could cause significant losses —'catastrophic physical tail risks'— remains low at present.
The most impactful weather events for the Group are primarily heatwaves and drought or water stress, followed by coastal flooding.
Our climate-related risk assessment methodology is based on that of the University of Cambridge’s Centre for Risk Studies.
The identification and assessment of physical and transition climate-related risks are subject to numerous uncertainties, arising, among other things, from the complexity of anticipating how the climate may evolve.
These uncertainties mean that the data contained in this report may be inaccurate in the future, depending on how the climate and the scientific consensus regarding the process of climate change evolve.
Such data therefore represent the best estimate that can be made using existing climate information and models.
We have recently broadened our ambition by updating our Sustainability Policy and publishing our new Energy Policy -both approved in February 2025-, the latter being key to the development of responsible energy management and a greater capacity for climate change adaptation and mitigation.
We have also approved the new policies Water Policy and Ecosystems and Biodiversity Policy, which strengthen our transversal approach to climate change, acknowledging the need to protect and restore nature and all its resources to contribute to its mitigation.
Commitment to promote responsible energy sourcing and management that contribute to reduce greenhouse gas emissions in our own operations and in the value chain.
Complementary and additional measures to contribute to improve the integrity and resilience of energy infrastructure, as well as actions aimed at transformation.
The entire Group (companies and individuals).
People who provide services or collaborate with the Group (including the Board of Directors).
It promotes the alignment of suppliers, factories along the supply chain and third parties engaged with the Group with the Policy.
Sustainability department and its chief officer.
Paris Climate Agreement.
Task Force on Climate-Related Financial Disclosures (TCFD).
Stakeholders’ interests and concerns relating to energy were taken into account in developing the policy.
Participation of the Social Advisory Board.
Our Sustainability Policy develops the Group’s commitment to continuous improvement in climate change adaptation and mitigation, as well as our commitment to a fair transition.
This commitment is broadened and updated through our Energy Policy, which reinforces our initiatives to reduce GHG emissions, responsibly manage natural resources and work to transform the industry.
The Energy Policy underscores the role of promoting energy efficiency in our operations and value chain, allowing us to reduce our environmental footprint through operating efficiency.
Accordingly, we propose strategies for monitoring energy consumption, increasing electrical and thermal efficiency to minimise energy losses and reduce the associated environmental impact by adopting innovative technologies and processes that optimise consumption, the application of best practices for design and construction and the adaptation of infrastructures.
Our Policy also emphasises the importance of choosing the best energy sources.
This applies both to our operations and our value chain, structured through the supply of lower-impact electricity, and the transition towards alternative energy sources (such as renewable energy sources) and the gradual elimination of fossil fuels.
We are also committed to contributing to sector transformation, through innovation and collaboration, thereby helping to effect systemic change.
In this regard, we include benchmark standards in our analyses, such as the TCFD framework for climate-related risk assessment.
We continually strive to find solutions that reduce GHG emissions throughout our value chain, with the aim of reaching net-zero emissions by 2040.
These efforts centre primarily on our Supply Chain Environmental Transformation Plan, our Fibres Plan, the launch of circularity and efficiency programmes, and the protection and conservation of ecosystems.
Our main measures this year, which we present below, evidence our efforts to mitigate the effects of climate change both at our own operations and in the rest of the value chain, in line with the goals established in our Climate Transition Plan.
Lower-impact consumption.
At our Company we are committed to generating and procuring energy from renewable sources to help us reduce our GHG emissions.
In this section we present the most noteworthy actions of the year, in which we will continue to work going forward, in keeping with our commitments and targets provided in the Group’s Climate Transition Plan.
In 2024, we reduced more than 434,000 tonnes of GHG in our scopes 1 and 2 with respect to 2018, highlighting the importance of these initiatives in our own operations.
We estimate that their implementation by 2030, together with other actions, will allow us to reduce 36,000 tonnes of GHG with respect to 2018.
Since 2022 we have fulfilled our goal of obtaining 100% of the electricity at our own facilities from renewable sources.
Self-consumption means renewable energy produced on our premises or in nearby locations to meet our energy needs.
To achieve this we use photovoltaic and wind power systems to generate renewable energy that helps reduce the environmental impact and GHG emissions associated with this electricity consumption.
In 2024 we have various active photovoltaic generation plants and a wind turbine generator that have a combined installed capacity of more than 5 MW and that produced 9,962 MWh of electricity.
Another notable self-consumption initiative is the development of the Outer Port Wind Facility in A Coruña in collaboration with the city’s Port Authority, which will consist of the installation of various wind turbine generators with an installed capacity of 5.5-6 MW.
Through this initiative, we aim to generate the renewable energy necessary to cover the annual electricity required by our headquarters in Arteixo, and, in addition, supply clean electricity to the port's own infrastructures.
In 2024, the process of administrative and technical approvals necessary to obtain the required licences continued.
Fostering self-consumption —through the different projects included in this section— is aligned with the objectives of our Sustainability Policy and Energy Policy pertaining to the promotion of the efficient management of natural resources, especially energy, and to reducing their consumption and the associated impacts.
These actions will help us meet our target of tripling our current self-consumption capacity of renewable electricity at our headquarters, offices and own distribution centres by 2027, date when we estimate that around one-fourth of the electricity used by these facilities will be generated by self-consumption sources.
In addition to implementing self-consumption initiatives, we promote the implementation of new renewable energy sources in our own operations through power purchase agreements (PPA), which are long-term agreements between energy consumers and producers.
These agreements enable producers to finance the construction of new renewable energy generation infrastructure, even when there are no incentives or subsidies.
They are a way to facilitate the sustainable and long-term implementation of new projects.
At 2024, year-end, we have virtual power purchase agreements (VPPA) in place for periods of 10 and 12 years, with a total installed capacity of 136 MW.
The related projects are in development phase, in some cases pending final approval, and will come on stream in 2025.
In 2024 we further developed our energy supply strategies, in particular boosting their alignment with solid criteria of respect for human rights.
Consequently, we have established a set of aspects around three fundamental pillars: environmental impact, social implications and support for grid capacity and resilience.
In total we have identified 15 criteria for contracting renewable energy projects, distributed in these three key categories, based on best practices, trends and current legislative requirements.
This action, continuously over time, is aligned with our target that, by 2027, 40% of our global electricity should be consumed through mechanisms that help develop additional capabilities, such as self-consumption, or signing new PPAs and VPPAs.
By 2030 our goal is to reach 60%.
In line with the objectives of our Sustainability Policy and our Energy Policy, these agreements help promote new infrastructure to generate renewable energy that will allow to reduce the GHG emissions associated with their energy consumption.
These agreements allow us to consume renewable energy regardless of the location of our operations, while contributing clean energy to the grid.
We aim to continue working in this sphere to generate new renewable energy capacity.
When we encounter limitations in the implementation of other mechanisms, we turn to alternatives such as green tariffs and energy attribute certificates.
These third-party-issued certificates evidence that a specified amount of electricity in our own operations was generated from renewable sources, reducing the volume of GHG emissions from our consumption with respect to the consumption of energy from conventional sources.
With few exceptions, the renewable energy in the certificates we use is generated in the same electricity market where the electricity is consumed and the certificates are issued and redeemed as close as possible to the energy consumption period in which the instrument is applied.
With regard to the acquisition of certificates, we follow the guidelines established by benchmark organisations, such as CDP and RE100.
In 2024, consistent with the previous year, more than 90% of the energy attribute certificates we acquired met these requirements.
This action is aligned with the objectives of our Sustainability Policy and Energy Policy in connection with promoting measures to reduce the environmental impact linked to GHG emissions generated by the production and consumption of energy.
Efficiency on facilities: headquarters, own logistics centres, own factories and stores.
Efficiency and optimisation initiatives.
Headquarters, own logistics centres and own factories Energy efficiency is an ongoing action that helps us to control the consumption of resources with the aim of reducing and mitigating our impact on the environment.
Hence, we make the necessary investments in our headquarters and platforms, and we promote best practices in our teams and processes.
Among these best practices is the application of bioclimatic and sustainable architectural criteria in the design and construction of our headquarters, as compared to conventional design and construction practices.
In fact, since 2009 we have been certifying our flagship spaces in accordance with the most widely recognised sustainable construction standards, such as the LEED certifications developed by the US Green Building Council.
These initiatives allow us to promote energy savings —with the consequent reduction in GHG emissions—, optimise water use and responsibly manage construction materials and waste, among other criteria, in line with the main environmental objectives of our Sustainability Policy and our Energy Policy.
In 2024 we had two LEED Platinum, 11 LEED Gold, two LEED Silver, one LEED CI Certified and one BREEAM certification.
We also continue to certify our facilities in Spain to the ISO 50001 international standard, which distinguishes efficient and sustainable energy management processes.
In 2024, our Central Services, CPD and the logistics platform in Arteixo, the logistics platform and CPD in A Laracha, Indipunt, the Europa logistics platform, the León logistics platform and the Meco logistics platform have all either renewed or obtained this certification.
Energy Efficiency —consistent with the objectives of our Sustainability Policy and Energy Policy— and the implementation of best practices are also priorities in our physical and online stores.
Accordingly, we periodically review our standards to align them with best practices and implement new programmes for continuous improvement in the sustainability of our stores.
At present, seven stores have LEED Platinum certification, 28 have LEED Gold certification and one has BREEAM certification.
Also notable is that by the end of 2024, 83% of our own stores were connected to the central Inergy platform, which allows us to monitor and optimise energy consumption in order to boost energy efficiency.
By applying sustainable construction practices in our stores, we are able to optimise their energy consumption as compared with conventional design and construction practices.
In accordance with Inditex’s roadmap to sustainability and in line with our Sustainability Policy, in 2024 we have launched our Supply Chain Environmental Transformation Plan 2024-2027.
This Plan is aimed at fostering the inclusion of environmental best practices and continuous collaboration with our suppliers.
The Plan outlines a series of measures to be phased in over the period, to help transform the textile industry through three lines of action: / Gradual increase in the minimum environmental requirements and standards.
Extension of the scope of application, adding environmental requirements also for dry processing facilities (spinning, weaving and sewing).
Until now, its application was mainly for wet processing facilities.
Accompaniment through support and evaluation tools and technical support through specialist consulting.
This Transformation Plan is structured around five priority environmental impacts: water consumption, wastewater treatment, chemical products, waste management and carbon footprint.
The Transformation Plan has been launched at all of the Group’s suppliers and manufacturers.
This year we also commenced the programmes to accompany our key suppliers and manufacturers.
This accompaniment through support tools and technical backing will be gradually provided to our supply chain over the course of the Plan’s period.
In 2024 we managed to reduce more than 560,000 tonnes of GHG in the goods and services category of our scope 3, with respect to 2018, thereby underscoring the importance of collaboration with our supply chain.
We estimate that the consolidation of this initiative through 2030, along with other measures in our value chain, will allow us to reduce 4.9 million tonnes of GHG with respect to our 2018 emissions, in keeping with our SBTs.
In order to promote not only the reduction of the environmental impact of our production, but also transform the textile industry, we will progressively increase the minimum environmental requirements that our suppliers and manufacturers must meet to be a part of our supply chain.
As these new requirements enter into force, they will be incorporated in our Green to Wear (GtW) standard.
We have established a calendar for minimum requirements for the 2024-2027 period to enable our suppliers and manufacturers to plan and execute any necessary improvements.
The scope of the Transformation Plan increases the environmental requirements for mainly wet processing facilities — already included under the GtW standard— and gradually incorporates, from 2025 onwards, environmental requirements for dry processing facilities (spinning, weaving and sewing).
The introduction of cleaner energy sources, along with the improvements in energy efficiency, are key to minimising GHG emissions associated with textile manufacturing processes.
These measures are aligned with our Sustainability Policy and Energy Policy and help us comply with out targets of reducing our GHG emissions by 53% by 2030 as compared with 2018, and reaching net-zero emissions by 2040.
We have included in our GtW standard a new minimum requirement for manufacturers in our supply chain, who must design a decarbonisation plan that must be in the process of implementation in 2025.
This plan should: / Meet a specific annual average carbon footprint reduction of at least 4.2%, considering scope 1 and 2 emissions as defined in the GHG Protocol.
Be updated in 2026 and 2027, in accordance with future benchmark values, specific to each type of facility, in which we are currently working.
Have a duration of at least one year; being recommended that it should entail longer-term actions with a more ambitious decarbonisation time frame.
Be ratified and signed by the management of each facility.
We continue to maintain the existing environmental requirements of our GtW standard, such as that no new coal-fired facility may join our supply chain, in line with our commitment to eliminate coal as an energy source.
At Inditex we implement a range of tools and initiatives to move forward in fostering environmental best practices and accompanying all the suppliers and manufacturers who show commitment to improvement.
These tools focus on monitoring the supply chain and verifying that our mandatory standards are met.
We highlight the role of environmental audits, which allow us to verify compliance with the GtW standard requirements across wet and dry processing facilities, and to introduce specific actions to continuously improve the environmental impact.
They will be applied to dry processes over the course of 2025.
We have also launched a quarterly data collection portal to compile relevant information on production, such as water and energy consumption.
Its purpose is to help these facilities to monitor the reduction of environmental impact reduction periodically.
We provide our suppliers and manufacturers with the tools to diagnose and monitor the environmental impact of the facilities in their supply chain.
These tools allow them to see their own performance diagnosis, showing their level of compliance with environmental requirements additional to minimum requirements through Inditex’s suppliers portal.
At Inditex we believe that responsible management of our supply chain implies accompanying our suppliers in improving their environmental performance.
For this purpose, we have technical assistance and monitoring programmes, notably including: • Corrective Action Plans (CAPs): for those instances in which breaches of the minimum requirements of our GtW standard are found.
This programme accompanies and helps facilities to meet the minimum requirements so as to remain part of our supply chain.
• Environmental Improvement Plans: these are offered progressively to the facilities in our supply chain so that they can devise medium-term improvement plans for priority impacts.
To devise these plans, we make available to key suppliers a technical support service through our teams and specialist consultants, to analyse the current status of their facilities and identify the action plans needed to meet the more stringent requirements defined.
We have created a tool focused on supporting suppliers and manufacturers in our supply chain in implementing the best available techniques aimed at industrial manufacturing processes.
This tool, made in collaboration with a network of experts and specialists, covers the best technologies and measures to reduce the impact in the various impact areas of the Transformation Plan.
This is freely accessible and available for anyone interested via our corporate website.
In addition, facilities can access, among other issues, information on the investment needed, the expected effect of consumption reductions and even potential constraints in the implementation of the measures.
The platform also provides information on the benefits of the proposed new technologies over conventional ones.
In connection with energy, it addresses and assesses topics like the regionally self-generation of renewable electricity, the signature of power purchase agreements (PPAs), the purchase of certified renewable energy from the grid, the monitoring of the consumption and energy optimisation of equipment and processes or the installation of heat recovery units, among others.
The financial resources allocated to the development of the actions carried out both in our own operations and in the supply chain do not represent a material amount in isolation and are accounted for as OpEx or CapEx depending on their nature (Note 6. Operating Expenses or Note 14. Property, plant and equipment of the Consolidated Annual Accounts), except for the existing vPPAs that are included in the Other Financial Assets item (Note 26. of the Consolidated Annual Accounts).
Regarding self-consumption, as reflected in our EU Taxonomy section, throughout this year we have made an investment 2.3 million euros in the Outer Port Wind Facility in A Coruña, and another 1.4 million in photovoltaic installations at our centres in Laracha and Zaragoza (Spain).
Both investments are accounted for as CapEx in Property, plant and equipment of the Consolidated Balance Sheet (see Note 14. of the Consolidated Annual Accounts).
The Outer Port Wind Facility in A Coruña, is planned for launch in 2027 with an estimated investments of 34 million euros, which will be recorded under Tangible Fixed Assets on the Consolidated Balance Sheet as the project is executed.
In 2023 we signed a multi-year collaboration agreement with Naturgy and EDAR Bens, the public company in charge of water treatment in the metropolitan area of A Coruña (Spain), to promote R&D work on biomethane (a renewable gas) production processes in the urban WWTP and food industry sectors as an alternative way of generating renewable energy.
In 2024, 1,892 MWh of biomethane were generated, which were included in the commercial supply agreement for Inditex’s facilities in Arteixo and A Laracha11.
This collaboration agreement has opened up avenues of research into the production of green hydrogen from the biogas generated by the plant and its possible injection into the existing natural gas network.
Furthermore, in 2024 the Group has conducted an analysis of its accounting information in order to determine which activities are associated with those described in the Taxonomy in relation to each of the six targets.
Hence, we ensure the transparency and accuracy of the data reported as per the requirements of Delegated Regulation (EU) 2021/2178 of the European Taxonomy Regulation.
During the year, we have recorded CapEx of 411 million euros in environmentally sustainable activities, and 4,867 million euros in Taxonomy non-eligible activities.
The Company’s main activity ―the distribution and sale of fashion items― is not included in the current regulatory framework.
We have signed up to initiatives like the Fashion Industry Charter for Climate Action (FICCA), led by the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change (UNFCCC), the United Nations Business Ambition for 1.5º , and the Fashion Pact.
We have also established partnerships with small organisations and initiatives like Smart Freight Centre and Cargo Owners for Zero Emission Vessels (COZEV).
With regard to the shipping and distribution of our products, we reached an agreement with Iberia and Repsol to pursue the supply of sustainable aviation fuel (SAF), setting ourselves the goal of using 5% of this fuel in Inditex’s cargo flights from Madrid.
In 2024 we joined RE100, led by the Climate Group.
Also, ahead of COP29, we signed the World Economic Forum and the Alliance of CEO Climate Leaders open letter calling on policy-makers and businesses to commit strategically and financially to net zero, recognising the need to work together for a just and equitable transition.
In addition, under our framework agreement with the International Apparel Federation, we collaborate with business organisations, brands and other players to drive the decarbonisation of global apparel and textile supply chains, including this year the launch of pilot programmes in Türkiye and Bangladesh.
Our Climate Transition Plan, available on the Inditex corporate website, includes a series of targets for furthering our climate commitment, in line with the Paris Agreement ambition, which aims to cap the increase in global temperature at 1.5ºC above pre-industrial levels.
We have set targets for water consumption in the supply chain, use of lower-environmental-impact raw materials and circularity services that help us progress towards our goals of reducing emissions and fighting climate change.
Our emissions reduction targets are aligned with the Paris Agreement ambition.
In this regard, we want to achieve net-zero GHG emissions in our entire value chain by 2040.
By 2030 we aim to reduce our total emissions by at least 53%, including our own operations and the value chain.
Both targets are directly aligned with four of our main policies: the Sustainability Policy, the Energy Policy, the Water Policy and the Ecosystems and Biodiversity Policy.
Specifically, with the commitments to preserve the environment, to consider the consequences of climate change and to implement continuous improvement measures to reduce greenhouse gas emissions.
Reduce scope 1 and 2 GHG emissions by 95% by 2040.
Reduce scope 3 GHG emissions by 90% by 2040.
Reduce absolute scope 1 and 2 emissions by 95% by 2030.
Reduce absolute scope 3 emissions by 51% by 2030.
Our 2040 net zero emissions target and 2030 emissions reduction target have been approved by the SBTi, in accordance with this organisation's criteria and considerations for the 1.5ºC emissions pathway.
This ensures that they are consistent with climate science consensus and the Paris Agreement ambition.
These targets affect both our own operations (scope 1 and 2) and our value chain (scope 3), regardless of their location.
With regard to scope 2 emissions, these targets apply to market-based scope 2 emissions.
For its part, scope 3 includes the following categories: purchased goods and services (category 1), fuel- and energy-related activities (category 3), upstream transportation and distribution (category 4), waste generated in our own operations (category 5), business travel (category 6), employee commuting (category 7), end-of-life treatment of sold products (category 12), downstream leased assets (category 13) and franchises (category 14).
Thanks to our efforts within the framework of our Climate Transition Plan, in 2024 we reduced scope 1, 2 and 3 emissions by 5% of our SBT, as compared to 2018.
In 2024, we launched our Supply Chain Environmental Transformation Plan 2024-2027, which will allow us to continue advancing towards our intermediate milestone of achieving a 20% reduction of emissions in all three scopes by 2027.
To achieve these targets, we have focused on the following commitments in key action lines with the ultimate aim of attaining net-zero emissions by 2040: / Use at least 90% of alternative fuels in maritime transport by 2025.
In the last few years we have worked with our logistics suppliers to promote this target.
In this connection, we highlight the recent agreement with Maersk for the shipping company to use alternative fuels on its vessels, such as green methanol or second-generation biofuels.
We are committed to the generation and purchase of energy from renewable sources as one of the key mechanisms for reducing our GHG emissions.
We therefore invest in generating renewable energy at our facilities.
Specifically, we have facilities for the generation of photovoltaic and wind energy, as well as geothermal and solar thermal energy.
Ensure that 40% of our own global electricity consumption comes from self-consumption and other mechanisms such as power purchase agreements (PPAs) or virtual power purchase agreements (VPPAs) by 2027.
And that at least 60% of that consumption comes from this kind of mechanism by 2030.
In addition to implementing self-consumption initiatives, we promote the implementation of new renewable energy sources through PPAs, which are long-term agreements between consumers and energy producers.
Our energy sourcing strategy factors in considerations around improvements in environmental impact, along with respect for human rights and support for the capacity and resilience of the grid.
In line with our commitment to the UN Fashion Industry Charter for Climate Action, since July 2023 we do not accept new factories to our supply chain that use coal as an energy source, and we continue to work with our suppliers and manufacturers to reduce coal consumption in those facilities where it was already being used.
We want to promote the use of renewable energy in our supply chain, and to do this we work both individually with factories and suppliers through our Supply Chain Environmental Transformation Plan, and collaboratively with our stakeholders through industry partnerships.
Under our Transition Plan, we launch various initiatives, in accordance with various decarbonisation levers, to reduce our GHG emissions and thereby move towards attaining our targets.
At Inditex, we take a comprehensive approach to climate change, analysing future climate scenarios and identifying the physical and transition risks, as well as associated opportunities to ensure a resilient short-, medium- and long-term strategy.
Based on our identification and assessment of climate-related impacts, risks and opportunities, we adapt our sustainability strategy, which is integrated into all our business areas.
Our Energy Policy aims to promote the sourcing and the responsible management of the energy consumed by Inditex’s activities throughout our value chain, to improve control over resources and reduce the environmental impact.
Our global energy consumption includes energy consumed in: / Corporate headquarters and international offices.
Own logistics centres.
Own factories.
Own stores.
In 2024 our global energy consumption amounted to 1,670,262 MWh (6,012,942 GJ), of which 1,543,884 MWh came from renewable sources.
This implies 27% reduction in relative energy consumption per square metre as compared with 2018 (in 2024, 636 MJ/m2).
We also undertake to optimise our energy consumption and to use lower-impact energy sources, in line with our Climate Transition Plan.
Fuel consumption from coal and coal products (MWh) 0.
Fuel consumption from crude oil and petroleum products (MWh) 21,633.
Fuel consumption from natural gas (MWh) 97,288.
Fuel consumption from other fossil sources (MWh) 0.
Consumption of purchased or acquired electricity, heat, steam, and cooling from fossil sources (MWh) 7,457.
Total fossil energy consumption (MWh) 126,377.
Share of fossil sources in total energy consumption (%) 8%.
Consumption from nuclear sources (MWh) 0.
Share of consumption from nuclear sources in total energy consumption (%) -%.
Fuel consumption for renewable sources including biomass (also comprising industrial and municipal waste of biologic origin, biofuels, biogas, renewable hydrogen, etc.) (MWh) 57.
Consumption of purchased or acquired electricity, heat, steam, and cooling from renewable sources (MWh) 1,534,720.
The consumption of self-generated non-fuel renewable energy (MWh) 9,107.
Total renewable energy consumption (MWh) 1,543,884.
Share of renewable sources in total energy consumption (%) 92%.
Total energy consumption (MWh) (1) 1,670,262.
Total relative energy consumption (kWh/m²) (1) 177.
Total relative energy consumption (Wh/€) (1) 43.
As defined by the statistical classification of economic activities of the European Union (NACE), our sector may be assigned to group ‘47.5 Retail sale of other household equipments in specialised stores’, considered of high climate impact.
Therefore, the total relative consumption provided is equivalent to consumption in sectors with a high climate impact.
To calculate total relative energy consumption (Wh/€) it has been used net sales obtained in 2024, as stated in Note 4 to our Consolidated Annual Accounts.
We have not generated any non-renewable energy over the course of the year.
In 2024, more than 90% of these renewable energy certificates met the requirements of benchmark organisations such as the CDP.
Of all the certificates used, 33% were bundled, and 67% were unbundled.
Kg CO₂eq per m² (market-based scope 1+2) 6.
Kg CO₂eq per m² (location-based scope 1+2) 52.
g CO₂eq per € (market-based scope 1+2) 1.6.
g CO₂eq per € (location-based scope 1+2) 13.
g CO2eq per € (market-based scope 1+2+3) 349.
g CO2eq per € (location-based scope 1+2+3) 360.
To calculate the GHG emissions intensity in 2024, we used the total value of our net sales, as indicated in Note 4 to our Consolidated Annual Accounts.
No other revenues were considered that are excluded from the calculation of GHG emissions intensity.
The Inditex Group’s scope 1, 2 and 3 GHG emissions have been verified independently, in addition to the verification of the information included in this Report by Ernst & Young in accordance with ISAE 3410 standard.
As stated in our Consolidated Annual Accounts, and based on an analysis of the contractual arrangements that grant joint control, the Group classified its participation in the Tempe Group as a joint venture.
Consequently, the Tempe Group’s GHG emissions have been consolidated with the emissions of the parent company.
The emissions of other participated companies non-consolidated in the Group’s financial statements are not applicable, and therefore not disclosed in the table above.
Based on the analysis of our activity, coupled with the materiality assessment and the views of our stakeholders, we compile a list of material pollution-related impacts, risks and opportunities12.
In the process we have included the assessment of all our activities and those of our value chain, considering the various locations of the facilities, with the aim of identifying all the potential impact pathways.
The results of the assessment allow us to conclude that the pollution-related material impacts, risks and opportunities are linked to the activity of our value chain (mainly to those supply chain stages that involve wet processes, and the use and end of life of articles) and are immaterial in our own operations.
For the current year, in accordance with the transitional provision of the European Directive (CSRD), in the section 10.2 of ESRS 1, the information reported in this chapter in connection with the value chain is of qualitative nature only.
In order to broaden the information reported in future reporting periods, we are working to compile information on metrics related to pollution in our value chain.
Dialogue with stakeholders is a pivotal part of our materiality analysis, as previously detailed in this Report.
Specifically, in 2024 we involved specialist organisations like Zero Discharge of Hazardous Chemicals (ZDHC) in our double materiality assessment.
Both in the materiality assessment as during the course of our activity, we work with specialist organisations that give us valuable insight into the possible impacts of our activity in terms of pollution.
In this regard, we highlight our adherence to ZDHC.
This continuous engagement also allows us to develop new goals and actions linked to the proper management of our impacts, risks and opportunities.
E2.I1 Impact from the use of chemical substances I / Raw materials / Supply Chain (2) / Use and end of life.
E2.I2 Possible emissions of other pollutants and microfibres I / Raw materials / Supply Chain / Use and end of life.
E2.R1 Transition risks due to pollution R / Extended value chain Transversal policies: / Sustainability Policy / Sustainability Stakeholder Relations Policy Specific policies: / Ecosystems and Biodiversity Policy / Energy Policy / Water Policy.
The principles enshrined in our policies are the foundation of initiatives to reduce the impact relating to pollution, and in particular to avoid the emission of substances of concern in the various stages of the value chain, most notably in manufacturing stages.
In keeping with our Sustainability Policy, we are working to minimise the potential environmental impact generated in our value chain, affecting ecosystems, biodiversity and its environment, as well as people, ensuring compliance with applicable legislation.
In line with our Water Policy, we promote adequate wastewater management by improving treatment processes and minimising the water footprint in the value chain.
Similarly, we foster measures to reduce potential emissions to soil and freshwater by substances such as nitrogen and phosphorous, from the supply chain and from consumers’ domestic laundry.
We also take into account possible microfibre shedding in manufacturing and domestic laundry, so we consider aspects relating to water when we design our products and processes.
Pollution derived from the manufacturing and processing of products represents a significant impact on biodiversity and, accordingly, on natural resources, the environment and people.
That is why, in line with our Ecosystems and Biodiversity Policy, we are committed to: / Protection and improvement of fertile soil health.
Water quality and access.
Protection of biodiversity and promotion on regenerative practices, among other actions.
Our Energy Policy also covers impacts on climate, air quality and the integrity of the ozone layer, due to their essential role in regulating the Earth’s biogeochemical cycles and maintaining temperatures and radiation levels compatible with life.
At Inditex we are fully committed to the safety of our articles.
Consequently, in accordance with our Sustainability Policy, we work to prevent, reduce and eliminate discharges, with a particular focus on potentially hazardous chemicals that might be harmful either to the environment or to people, such as our customers and the supply chain workers.
In line with our Water Policy, we are also committed to reducing the impact of emissions and discharges of pollutants into water, including chemical substances.
Accordingly, our Green to Wear standard includes requirements relating to the chemical management system (CMS) and production process control.
We also require our suppliers and manufacturers to adhere to the Manufacturing Restricted Substances List, of the Zero Discharge of Hazardous Chemicals (ZDHC) foundation prior to entering into a commercial relationship with us.
We have made available to the industry the programme The List, by Inditex through ZDHC’s Gateway platform.
This is a programme carried out in partnership with the chemical industry that includes a classification of chemical products to ensure the safety of the final garments and improve the discharge quality.
In line with our Sustainability Policy and in order to avoid pollution-related incidents and emergencies, we identify the main risks in both our own operations and those of the supply chain.
Our Environmental Management System, which is certified to ISO 14001 standard, identifies the potential risks in connection with pollution emergencies in terms of logistics facilities and headquarters.
This system establishes environmental incident logs, procedural reviews and the deadlines for remediation and improvement, among others, so as to avoid incidents and preserve the environment.
We carry out environmental audits to verify compliance with our Green to Wear standard and we determine the suitable Corrective Action Plans (CAPs), helping our suppliers to remedy the non-compliances detected.
We continuously strive to ensure that the products we sell are safe for our customers, the people who make them, the local communities, our workforce and the planet.
To achieve this, we have our own specific product and process standards that are of general and mandatory application to our entire supply chain, for all the articles we sell.
These standards go beyond the requirements of current international legislation and cover processes from design to manufacturing.
We have a number of standards focusing on managing chemical products in processes and articles, which we break down in detail below.
Green to Wear Manufacturing processes of textile and leather goods.
The List, by Inditex Chemical products used in the production of garments, fabrics, footwear, accessories and home textiles.
Clear to Wear Garments, fabrics, footwear, accessories and home textiles.
i+Cosmetics Cosmetics.
i+Food Contact Materials Products in contact with food.
i+Home Fragrances and candles Home fragrances, candles and their accessories.
With regard to pollution, we highlight our Green to Wear standard, whose chemical management system (CMS) module for the management of chemical products requires suppliers to choose the most adequate chemical products to ensure safety from the outset of the production process.
Associated with this programme, we also have The List, by Inditex, to guarantee the use of safe chemical products; and, lastly, our Clear to Wear standard, which focuses on the health and chemical safety of finished products in textile and leather articles, as well as other Inditex health standards that apply to other product types.
We also have other health and safety standards linked to the characteristics of each product type, outlined in section S4. Consumers and end-users.
In order to promote the reduction of the environmental impact of our supply chain, since 2014 at Inditex we have been implementing our Green to Wear standard.
This is a key tool to apply best practice in those processes with the highest environmental impact, most notably in wet processes, and thereby to gradually reduce the environmental impact of our garments, by applying a principle of continuous improvement through evaluation, support and monitoring.
Our Clear to Wear (CtW) standard incorporates the strictest global regulations on chemical substances in textile and leather articles.
Likewise, it includes the European Union REACH law, which regulates the Registration, Evaluation, Authorisation and Restriction of Chemicals), as a mandatory EU regulation for all our suppliers.
In 2024 we launched a new version of the CtW standard to update it with the latest regulatory developments and to further our alignment with the Restricted Substances List (RSL) of the Apparel and Footwear International RSL Management (AFIRM) Group.
This standard is of general application and mandatory for all garments, footwear, home textiles, fabrics and leather supplied to Inditex, as well as for certain accessories, such as: handbags, belts, scarves, fashion jewellery and similar products.
In order to ensure an adequate response to the specific properties of the various product families —those in contact with food or cosmetics— at Inditex we have developed specific i+ standards.
They include both the applicable health and safety parameters, and the documentary and best manufacturing practice requirements, as well the analysis protocols for establishing compliance with the provisions contained in the standards.
In the case of products that come into contact with food, our standard also restricts the transfer of their constituent chemical substances to the food they come into contact with.
Our environmental improvement strategy promotes the use of certified chemical products and makes this mandatory from 2026 onwards, allowing us to ensure the proper selection of products that do not contain or are low in substances of concern (SOCs), with a particular focus on substances of very high concern included in the formulation of chemical products used by the textile and leather industry.
These certifications include the most stringent level of ZDHC compliance —level 3— along with our The List, by Inditex programme, which is a part of the ZDHC —Chemical to Zero— strategy for more sustainable chemical products and is included in the Gateway platform as level 3 certification.
This programme consists of a procedure for classifying chemical products that improves production processes and the health and safety of garments, officially categorised by the ZDHC as Progressive level, in its fifth edition.
We therefore provide our manufacturers and suppliers with a list of commercially available chemical products used in the manufacturing processes of textile and leather goods.
This gives our manufacturers and suppliers key information with which to determine whether a chemical product meets the requirements of ZDHC’s Manufacturing Restricted Substances List (MSRL), the Restricted Substances List (RSL) by AFIRM, and our own Clear to Wear standard.
In this programme, which was updated in 2023, chemical products are classified into a positive or negative list, with two categories (‘A’ and ‘C’) to distinguish products that are allowed in Inditex production processes, and those that are banned.
At Inditex, we implement a range of initiatives to prevent and reduce pollution throughout our own operations and in our value chain, both directly —by establishing restrictions on the use of chemical substances, or minimising microfibre shedding from our garments— and indirectly —by reducing energy and water consumption primarily in the production processes of our supply chain, among others—.
The Supply Chain Environmental Transformation Plan, due to its transversal nature, is detailed in standard E1.
The specific information on priority impacts can be found in the associated standards.
At Inditex we work to ensure the application of minimum requirements on discharge quality for all wet process facilities with direct discharge to the environment, in keeping with the water impact reduction goals of our Sustainability and Water Policy.
To achieve this, we use the Zero Discharge of Hazardous Chemicals (ZDHC) Wastewater Guidelines, focused on improving the application of minimum discharge quality requirements in all manufacturing countries.
This allows us to progress in gradually reducing the values of the conventional parameters, heavy metals and the presence of chemical substances listed in both ZDHC Wastewater Guidelines and Manufacturing Restricted Substances List (MRSL).
We have increased our minimum requirements so that all the wet processing facilities in our supply chain with direct discharge into the environment must reach the foundational level by July 2025, and progressive level by July 2026, in accordance with the provisions of the ZDHC Wastewater Guidelines.
In addition, they must comply with applicable national and local discharge legislation.
Within the framework of improvement tools, some of the main actions we recommend for improving wastewater management at a facility are the optimisation of their purification processes and the training of purification plant operators/ technicians, among others.
At Inditex we set up the ZDHC Roadmap to Zero programme as a tool for leading the improvement in managing chemical inputs.
This initiative allows us to advance in the protection of workers in the supply chain, guarantee the safety of each article and protect the environment from substances of concern, in accordance with our Sustainability Policy.
This initiative applies to wet processing facilities.
The initiative involves including new minimum requirements for the management of chemical products in the Green to Wear standard.
This includes a gradual increase in the minimum percentage of ZDHC level 3 certified product inventory in our facilities to 95% by 2026.
Currently, all the products in the positive list (those classified as A) of The List, by Inditex programme are already ranked as level 3.
All inventoried chemical products that are not certified by ZDHC must be checked using the Group’s chemical control methodology during their transition to achieving the 2026 goal.
With regard to the improvement tools, the main initiatives we advise for increasing the use of ZDHC certified level 3 chemical products at a facility are requiring from the chemical product manufacturers certification of their chemical portfolio, and the use of alternative certified chemical products.
We recommend using support tools such as the repository with the range of certified products, The List, by Inditex report, and the ZDHC gateway chemicals module.
The financial resources linked to the development of these actions are associated with operating expenses, which in isolation do not represent a material amount in terms of CapEx or OpEx.
This amount is included under Operating Expenses in the Consolidated Income Statement (see Note 6 to the Consolidated Annual Accounts).
As a complement to our actions, we also implement Research, Development and Innovation (R&D+i) initiatives, which allow us to move forward in our sustainability strategy and work to prevent and reduce pollution.
In 2024, we highlight our initiatives linked to chemical products, along with the new ambition of our research programmes and adoption of new measures and technologies stemming from innovation.
R&D+I in analysis methodology: We have developed different procedures to detect substances that might be potentially hazardous for users, reducing their impact and the associated emissions.
These notably include: • Study of formaldehyde emissions in wood materials.
Development of a method of analysis to verify the presence of synthetic lipid antioxidants in leather.
Comparison between methods to detect total fluoride in textile samples and chemical products.
Study of the application of a hydrolysis-based method to detect the nature of PFAS and to help discriminate between intentional application and cross-contamination.
R&D+I in studies and projects: • Study to find alternatives to sulphones and syntans in leather tanning.
Study of the impact of finishing treatment on the pH of leather and its link to the tendency to form hexavalent chromium.
R&D+I in guides: • Update of the best manufacturing practices guidelines for the use of safe chemical alternatives to PFAS and minimisation of cross-contamination.
We take part in collaboration initiatives to implement different innovative measures and technologies, co-developed by the Group through industrial research partnerships with notable organisations such as BASF, CHT, Pulcra, EPSON, Jeanologia and DyStar, among others, that allow us to progress towards our goals, in keeping with our strategy and policies.
The aim of this innovation and development network is to demonstrate that new measures and technologies work on an industrial scale.
At the same time, information is provided to carry out case studies to verify the improvements made, facilitating their implementation in other facilities.
Among the foremost research initiatives, in 2024 we highlight the following programmes: The Colouring by Inditex, linked to the wet processing impact; The Materials by Inditex, focusing on fibres and materials; and The Microfibers by Inditex, addressing the emerging challenge of microfibres.
We also have The Mill by Inditex, an initiative to accelerate the adoption of innovative technologies in dyeing processes that reduce our environmental impact, especially in connection with water and energy consumption and the chemical products used in these processes.
This initiative, a pioneer in the industry and aimed at the transfer of disruptive technologies, looks forward to demonstrate the technological and economic viability of a net zero facility in terms of emissions, water, waste and microfibres.
To achieve this, in 2024, we devised a theoretical model based on three core areas –chemicals, circularity and renewable electrification–.
This year, in the pilot demonstrations we have included supplier installations in Morocco, which add to those already carried out in 2023 in Portugal and Türkiye.
This is our strategic innovation programme linked to reducing the potential impact of wet processes, carried out in collaboration with renowned industrial organisations.
Some of its most notable initiatives are: • PIGMENTURA by CHT, an innovative dyeing solution that not only slashes water consumption by up to 96%, but also prevents microfibre shedding.
This novel development, which is the result of our research partnership with CHT that commenced in 2020 and that has been awarded with German Ecodesing Award in the product category this year, is based on a pigment dye that does not require washing and drying processes, thereby reducing the energy needed to heat the water used in conventional production processes.
This can save up to 60% of energy compared to other, continuous dyeing technologies.
• SUSTINERI COLORING by PULCRA, another innovative dyeing solution, in this case exhaustion dyeing, that reduces water consumption by up to 58%, prevents the release of microfibres and significantly reduces production times.
This development arises through the research alliance with PULCRA and is based on the use of high-performance wetting and dispersing agents, designed to combine pretreatment and colouring operations in a single process.
• Circular Dyeing, focused on the circularity of dyeing systems, through the reuse of water, energy and chemicals in a closed-loop to improve the use of resources and reduce pollution.
• Another solution we have developed is SOKALAN by BASF for the implementation and optimization of the first industrial cold-wash system.
This system enables a reduction in both temperature and the number of washing cycles, thereby decreasing water and energy consumption as well as the time required in the conventional production process.
We continued to work on a number of measures to prevent both synthetic and natural microfibre shedding, especially in stages of the value chain where this shedding and subsequent release into wastewater is particularly relevant, such as in wet processing.
Among the main initiatives of the year was the implementation at suppliers of the first units of the AirFiberWasher, developed in partnership with the Spanish company Jeanología, which aims to help prevent the release of microfibres in domestic washing.
Using an innovative, air-based technology makes it possible to remove, prior to selling textile articles, a large part of the microfibres that would otherwise be released later in domestic washing.
Furthermore, this is achieved without increasing water and energy consumption or compromising the quality of the treated fabrics.
Our programme for the development of circular fibres and materials, with a lower environmental impact.
The financial resources linked to implementing these actions, which on their own do not imply a material amount, are included under Operating Expenses in the Consolidated Income Statement (see Note 6 of the Consolidated Annual Accounts).
We develop other initiatives, such as compiling the Clothes Caring Guide.
This guide offers our consumers tips for clothing care to help extend the life of the garments and reduce the environmental impact of garment care processes.
This reduces wear and tear on clothing and the amount of water and energy consumed in washing and drying garments.
We also carry out projects to use organic or in transition raw materials, which avoid the use of pesticides and fertilisers that may pollute and degrade the soil.
Furthermore, we invest in innovative agricultural projects that apply regenerative practices to preserve soil quality.
We also work to minimise the environmental impact from the use of our products and to lengthen their useful life.
In this regard, it is worth highlighting our The Laundry by Zara Home detergent, designed to reduce microfibre shedding in washing and also reducing energy consumption.
We therefore include innovation from our supply chain right through to our customers, in line with our commitment to mitigate the Group’s impact on the environment, especially to reduce the consumption of natural resources and pollution.
As in previous years, we continue the collaboration with Zero Discharge of Hazardous Chemicals (ZDHC).
This year we have taken an active part in the Technical Experts Team Chemical to Zero Progressive (CtZ-P) working group to define the Progressive certification framework and system for the Chemical to Zero roadmap, sharing our expertise and experience in the control of chemical products with The List, by Inditex programme.
We are also involved in the AFIRM Group to reduce the use and impact of substances of concern for health and the environment through the creation of an industry RSL standard.
We are members of the Board of ZDHC and the Management Committee of AFIRM.
We design best manufacturing practice guidelines and provide regular training to our suppliers, especially those involved in wet processes.
Thus, we continue to move forward in the proper selection, acquisition, handling, storage and use of chemical products.
The impacts related to pollution have been identified in our supply chain and the end of life of our products.
That is why at Inditex we do not have direct contribution targets.
We have launched a series of collaboration initiatives with our supply chain that are materialised through the establishment of targets related to climate, water consumption, wastewater treatment, chemicals, waste management and raw materials.
Management of the air pollution generated in our supply chain is closely linked to climate change.
In this regard, we have developed various commitments at Company level in relation to the climate, which are set out in the Climate Transition Plan.
Through the Supply Chain Environmental Transformation Plan, we aim to reduce the environmental impact associated with textile manufacturing, and accordingly any air, water or soil pollution deriving from the production processes of our articles.
The Fibres Plan contains goals linked to the use of lower-impact raw materials16, which are also related to pollution management.
The use of these fibres reduces the impact generated during the cultivation and sourcing stage, thereby easing the pressure on the soil and water, and also in the use and end-of-life phases.
Emission of pollutants.
As previously stated, the impacts derived from pollutant emissions are located in different stages of our value chain, mainly in the manufacturing processes of our supply chain, but not in our own operations.
It is not currently possible to quantify these significant emissions to air (not greenhouse gases), water and soil.
The lack of robust information and estimation methodologies with firm and contrasted criteria in the textile industry also precludes making estimates based on scientific or proxy data.
We are working to compile this data and be able to disclose information in upcoming reporting periods.
With regard to the potential generation and/or use of microplastics, it has been determined that the impacts identified in the double materiality analysis are located primarily in our value chain during the manufacturing processes and the use of our articles.
We consider the applicable legal restrictions in connection with microplastics and we continue to seek alternatives in our articles.
At present, reporting information on microplastics and/or microfibres presents challenges such as the lack of a robust methodology in the industry to calculate these emissions, or the difficulty in obtaining the data from our value chain.
No related metrics have been included.
In qualitative terms, we have estimated the Group’s impacts derived from microfibre emissions at various stages of the value chain, also addressing their possible mitigation.
We aim to introduce possible improvements in the production processes of our articles, and during its use.
Given how challenging it is to estimate the air, water and soil emissions derived from our supply chain, in the next few years we will work with reference organizations on defining the appropriate measurement criteria which, along with developments in the sector, we hope will enable us to report the related metrics and their evolution.
Substances of concern can be harmful to the environment and people.
These substances could be contained in the formulation of different chemical products that are used in certain processes, facilities and products in the supply chain.
The safety data sheets (SDS) for chemical products indicates the presence of substances of concern generally above the concentration threshold of 0.1%.
Due to a limitation in the data provided by the manufacturers of chemical products on the formulated substances used in those products, it is not possible to confirm whether the absence of a substance is due to a concentration below these thresholds, or if it is not included in the formulation as an ingredient.
There is a lack of homogeneous international requirements when it comes to the classification of substances and legal requirements on disclosure and SDS format, which affects traceability in the supply chain outside the European Union.
We cannot quantify the volume of these substances generated and/or used to carry out our value chain activity.
Neither is it viable to make science-based or proxy estimates due to the lack of truthful information and estimation methods with firm and contrasted criteria in the textile industry.
We consider that the best way to avoid the presence of these substances in our products is by controlling the chemicals used in manufacturing processes.
It is crucial that all the industries involved, including the chemical industry, work together to guarantee the availability of technically viable alternatives.
Some of the initiatives we are currently carrying out, and which help minimise the use of these substances, are: / The List, by Inditex.
Manufacturing Restricted Substances List (MRSL) by ZDHC.
Green to Wear standard’s chemical product management module.
Digitalisation of the chemical inventory.
Performance InCheck Report by ZDHC.
Based on the analysis of our activity, coupled with the materiality assessment and the views of our stakeholders, we identify a list of material water resources-related impacts, risks and opportunities.
In the process we have included the assessment of all our activities and those of our value chain, considering the various locations of the facilities, with the aim of analysing in detail the potential avenues of impact associated with the various river basins.
The results obtained allow us to conclude that the material water resources-related impacts, risks and opportunities are associated with our value chain, and are immaterial in respect of our own operations.
Regarding value chain and in accordance with the transitional provision of the European Directive (CSRD), in section 10.2 of ESRS 1, the information reported in this chapter is subject to a progressive reporting timeline.
Mindful of our impacts and dependencies on water resources, for some years we have been reporting information on certain metrics relating to our supply chain (specifically, the relative consumption of wet process factories).
As a result of this materiality assessment, we have also found that our activities are not materially dependent on marine resources.
With regard to the impacts on the marine environment, we have identified possible chemical substances and microfibre pollution, which we develop further in standard E2. Pollution; however, no other material impacts, risks or opportunities were identified.
We do not include details concerning marine resources in this standard.
Stakeholder dialogue is a key element of our materiality assessment, as detailed previously in this Report.
Specifically, in 2024 we involved specialised organisations like Pacific Institute and ECODES in our double materiality exercise.
Both in the materiality assessment as during the course of our activity, we collaborate with specialised organisations that give us valuable knowledge regarding the impacts our activity might have on water resources.
In this connection, we highlight our involvement in the United Nations’ CEO Water Mandate initiative; and our membership of the Alliance for Water Stewardship (AWS).
This continuous engagement also allows us to develop new goals and actions linked to the proper management of our impacts, risks and opportunities.
E3.I1 Water withdrawal I / Raw materials / Supply Chain (2) / Use and end of life Transversal policies: / Sustainability Policy / Sustainability Stakeholder Relations Policy Specific policies: / Water Policy / Ecosystems and Biodiversity Policy.
E3.I2 Water discharge I / Raw materials / Supply Chain (2) / Use and end of life.
E3.R1 Physical and transition risks related to water resources R / Extended value chain.
Our new Water Policy enshrines our commitment to water valuation, incorporating specific principles and lines of action for that purpose.
We have broadened the vision through our Ecosystems and Biodiversity Policy in connection with water quality and health, and our Energy Policy due to its interrelation with energy consumption and wet processes.
Commitment to water valuation(1) across our own operations and the value chain.
Minimising the water footprint impact; protecting, conserving and restoring ecosystems; promoting access to water, sanitation and hygiene; ensuring a good water governance and driving transformation at industry level.
The entire Group (companies and individuals).
People who provide services or collaborate with the Group (including the Board of Directors).
It promotes the alignment of suppliers, factories along the supply chain and third parties engaged with the Group with the Policy.
Sustainability Department and its chief officer.
Principles on valuing water of the UN High Level Panel on Water.
The interests of and potential impacts on stakeholders relating to water resources were taken into account in developing the policy.
Participation of the Social Advisory Board.
Our Sustainability Policy features water as a key part of our environmental perspective, from both the standpoint of aquatic ecosystems and that of the use and pollution of natural resources.
This is further extended by our new Water Policy, which reinforces our initiatives to reduce GHG emissions, responsibly manage natural resources and work to transform the industry.
We proactively collaborate to ensure sustainable water management in the regions where our supply chain operations take place, recognizing the importance of joint efforts in preserving the environmental quality of river and marine ecosystems.
Our Water Policy includes lines of action associated with water use, such as the identification, assessment and management of material water-related impacts, risks and opportunities in the value chain, the prioritisation of using recycled water and alternative sources, and the reduction of water withdrawal and discharge by promoting technologies and practices for savings at every stage of the value chain.
We have introduced considerations linked to water supply, such as reducing its consumption in areas of high water stress.
In our Sustainability Policy and our Energy Policy, we underscore reducing water consumption in our industry as a means to reduce energy consumption, thereby acknowledging the direct link between managing water as a resource and climate change.
In line with the measures associated with water use and supply, in our Water Policy we undertake to explore innovative technologies in water treatment and reuse, which will allow us to prioritise the use of recycled water and the reuse of water in processes.
This allows us to promote sustainable resource management, improving treatment processes and minimising our water footprint throughout the value chain.
Through our policies we undertake to advance towards the prevention, reduction and elimination of discharges into water, with special attention to potentially hazardous chemicals and other pollutants or waste generated in the value chain.
We promote responsible practices for water withdrawal and discharge that positively impact water quality, and we undertake to consider potential pollution throughout the life cycle when designing products and processes, and to explore improvements in treatment technologies.
This includes the deployment of action plans and targets for reducing the potential impact of the emission and discharge of polluting substances in the value chain.
Within the framework of our strategy and progress towards a circular economy, we approach water management in a transversal way in every stage of the production chain, from design and selection of materials to manufacturing and distribution throughout the entire value chain.
In connection with water resources, this ambition is strengthened by our Water Policy, which establishes a commitment to consider water-related aspects in product design and production processes, including the assessment of water use and potential pollution throughout the life cycle, from the sourcing of raw materials and manufacturing, to use by consumers and end of life.
Among the main lines of action included of our Water Policy, we specifically include reducing water consumption in areas of high water stress, for which purpose we establish a range of commitments associated with these areas.
Notable among these are the ambition to establish contextualised water consumption reduction targets, based on geolocation and monitoring of the impact associated with the water footprint of the Group's suppliers and manufacturers operating in those locations.
We support suppliers to implement regenerative practices, backing the value chain in the transition to more efficient water management systems that reduce water withdrawal and discharge, and to reduce consumption by implementing closed-loop water systems and regenerative practices, thus promoting long-term water availability in these regions.
We align our commitment to the efforts of conservation, protection and restoration of freshwater and marine ecosystems through the CEO Water Mandate initiative, focused on preserving freshwater through collective action in highly water-stressed river basins.
Dialogue with stakeholders is a key element of our materiality assessment, as detailed previously in this Report.
Lastly, also within the framework of our commitment to the CEO Water Mandate initiative, we seek to carry out assessments to identify the critical areas in forested river basins, wetlands, oceanic areas and other relevant ecosystems, and to prioritize conservation and restoration actions to work towards the improvement and protection of the hydrosphere.
At Inditex we are aware of the critical importance of water for life and ecosystems and the challenges posed in terms of availability and quality.
To address those challenges, we conduct out initiatives on our own and in partnership with our stakeholders to reduce our environmental impact, located primarily in our supply chain, and preserve ecosystems.
Water withdrawal is one of our impacts in relation to this resource, especially important when it takes place in areas at high water risk.
We implement a water management strategy with two differentiated approaches: minimising our negative impacts —with an emphasis on our work relating to the framework of the Supply Chain Environmental Transformation Plan and the Green to Wear and Care for Water standards— and contributing to the positive impact, for example through our commitment to CEO Water Mandate.
To make progress in achieving of our sustainability targets, we have launched our Supply Chain Transformation Plan 2024-2027.
It is structured around five priority environmental impacts: water consumption17, wastewater treatment, chemicals, waste management and carbon footprint.
To foster reducing water consumption in the supply chain in keeping with our Water and Sustainability Policies and further our target, we have implemented the Care for Water (CFW) consumption standard.
This standard provides benchmark values for water-intensive manufacturing facilities, which in turn are part of the Green to Wear (GtW) standard.
The CFW standard allows us to classify wet processing facilities by their water consumption levels and set minimum water management requirements for the 2024-2027 period.
From November 2024, wet processing facilities in our supply chain must have a water consumption level classified as ‘good’ in accordance with the CFW standard.
From July 2025 onwards, these facilities must attain a level of ‘excellent’ for optimal water consumption management.
In this regard, the GtW Supporting Documents contain instructions for facilities to calculate their water consumption and their Care for Water target.
We also have support and accompaniment mechanisms that are a crucial part of the Transformation Plan.
These include our Best Available Techniques (BAT) tool with detailed information on solutions for improving process optimisation and recipes for pre-treatment, dyeing and finishing; investment in new, more efficient machinery; and wastewater recycling for use in textile processes.
We implement initiatives aimed at preventing and mitigating pollution, associated with water quality.
Minimization of the water footprint: collaboration with suppliers in the implementation of good practices in water usage, associated with our i Green to Wear standard.
We also work on consumer awareness, with the creation of manuals that promote responsible water consumption among our clients (i Clothes Caring Guide).
Protection, conservation and restoration of ecosystems: establishment of alliances for the restoration and conservation of hydrographic accounts (CEO Water Mandate, i WWF).
Promoting global and equitable access to water, sanitation and hygiene: collaboration with stakeholders, civil society, manufacturers and suppliers to improve adequate hygiene conditions and access to drinking water (Water.org, i Workers at the Centre).
Drive for transformation and innovation: improvement of production processes to reduce water consumption and minimise wastewater, such as the installation of closed circuit systems at dyeing plants (i Circular Dyeing).
We maintain various collaborations with organisations like the World Wildlife Fund (WWF), the CEO Water Mandate and the Alliance for Water Stewardship.
We also work with Water.org to improve access to drinking water and sanitation for low income families in Bangladesh, Cambodia and India.
We also work with industrial partners to drive industry transformation through collaboration and science-based innovation.
Our industrial research partners include industry leaders such as BASF, CHT, Pulcra, Jeanología, DyStar and others.
The ESRS define water consumption as the amount of water withdrawn and not discharged back to the water environment: for example, evaporated water or water incorporated into articles.
In our business, the amount of water consumed according to this definition is very low, since almost all the water withdrawn is discharged at the end of its use in our supply chain production processes, so it does not imply material consumption.
Therefore, relative to consumption, water withdrawal is the most representative metric of water-related impacts reported under the ESRS E3 standard in the textile sector.
The most commonly use term is water ‘consumption’, that is the term we use in this Chapter.
Water consumption in our own operations is not material considering the nature of our activity.
Water consumption is material at our value chain, specially at the production stage of our articles, in particular in wet processes —dyeing, washing, finishing and printing, among others—.
Another relevant phase in this connection is raw material production, an area we are working on to provide more information in future reporting periods.
We work with our suppliers and the rest of the industry in adopting best available practices, particularly in connection with water management and improving discharge quality.
As part of our approach to water management, we have set ourselves the target of reducing relative water consumption in our supply chain by 25 % in 2025, as compared with 2020.
The aim is also to reduce the emissions associated with managing, handling and heating water during manufacturing processes.
This target is related to our Sustainability Policy and our Water Policy.
Specifically, with our commitment to taking into account the consequences of climate change, water management and biodiversity protection.
This target allows us to directly address our progress in preventing, minimising and remedying impacts linked to our supply chain.
This demonstrates our commitment to developing innovation-based initiatives, and in collaboration with our manufacturers, for a responsible water management.
This target therefore helps us to transfer an effect to our supply chain that helps reduce the potential impact associated with water withdrawal, especially in water-stressed areas, by improving water management in the wet processes involved in making our products.
It also allows us to prevent associated risks, both physical —susceptibility to production disruptions associated with water scarcity— and in terms of transition —aligning ourselves with the regulatory changes linked to the topic—.
This target applies to all geographies where our manufacturers' activities are carried out, being especially relevant in those locations deemed to be at water risk.
To obtain the water necessary to carry out supply chain production processes, and given our global presence, our suppliers and manufacturers withdraw water from various river basins.
We have located and assessed water-related impacts to which both our own operations and those of our supply chain are exposed.
This allows us to identify potential risks linked to our operations, specifically whether our facilities or those of our supply chain are located in water stressed river basins.
Specifically, in our 2024 materiality assessment we analysed the location of our supply chain facilities in relation to water stressed areas.
We thus found that Türkiye, Mainland China and Morocco are the main markets with wet processing facilities exposed to material water risk.
Based on the analysis of our activity, coupled with the materiality analysis and the views of our stakeholders, we compile a list of material biodiversity and ecosystem-related impacts, risks and opportunities.
In this process we have taken the LEAP approach (Locate, Evaluate, Analyse and Prepare) as a reference, analysing the locations of our own facilities and those of our value chain and identifying the Company’s connection to the natural resources needed to produce raw materials and other key value chain processes, as well as the impact and dependencies on nature.
We acknowledge our dependency on nature’s ecosystem services in order to be able to offer our products and services.
The provision of ecosystem services depends on a healthy state of nature and, in some areas across our operational footprint and value chain, these services are sourced from areas where there is a loss of biodiversity and health of ecosystems as a result of various pressures.
The likely material dependencies on ecosystem services identified can be broadly grouped under water, soil and climate regulation in both upstream and downstream operations.
No material dependencies on ecosystem services have been identified in relation to own operations, transportation and factories of our supply chain that do not perform wet processes.
Our risk analysis also included the possible occurrence of systemic risks.
We have identified two potential risks associated with the collapse of ecosystems from an environmental point of view —unavailability of agricultural raw materials— and the disruption of the supply chain associated with the collapse of ecosystems —paralysis of manufacturing production— .
Stakeholder dialogue is a key element of our materiality analysis, as detailed previously in this Report.
Specifically, in 2024 we involved specialist organisations like Conservation International in our double materiality assessment.
In addition to the materiality assessment, during the course of our activity we also work with specialist organisations that give us valuable insight into the possible impacts of our activity on ecosystems and biodiversity.
We highlight our collaboration with leading organizations as the World Wildlife Fund (WWF), Conservation International and Canopy.
This continuous engagement also allows us to develop new goals and actions linked to the proper management of our impacts, risks and opportunities.
E4.I1 Impacts related to the exploitation, degradation and disruption of ecosystems and natural resources I / Extended value chain Transversal policies: / Sustainability Policy / Sustainability Stakeholder Relations Policy Specific policies: / Ecosystems and Biodiversity Policy / Water Policy.
E4.R1 Physical and transition risks due to biodiversity and ecosystems R / Extended value chain.
Our assessment identified certain of our own facilities located near biodiversity-sensitive areas, using indications provided in the IBAT tool.
They correspond to stores, offices and distribution centres which do not have a material impact on biodiversity due to the profile of their operations.
This matches the results of our materiality analysis, which found that the main impact on biodiversity and ecosystems would be produced in our value chain, with no material impact being found in our own operations.
With regard to our value chain, we are in the process of compiling new information to supplement this report in subsequent years, in accordance with the transitional provision of the CSRD, in ESRS 1, section 10.2.
The findings of our materiality assessment do not indicate the existence of impacts on endangered species by our own operations.
We have identified a possible impact linked to the exploitation, degradation and disruption of ecosystems and natural resources in our value chain, the analysis of which we will develop further in future years.
The results of our analysis affirmed the need to continue implementing mitigation measures, which we include in our Sustainability and our Ecosystems and Biodiversity policies, and enforce through the various actions we develop.
We have broadened our ambition when it comes to protecting biodiversity and ecosystems through the principles compiled in our new Ecosystems and Biodiversity Policy, which underpins our commitment in this respect, further supported by other core policies such as the Water Policy.
Commitment to no deforestation, no degradation or no conversion of natural ecosystems, as well as to the betterment of biodiversity and the ecosystem health.
Promotion of the balanced and sustainable management, preservation and recovery of ancient and endangered forests and other natural ecosystems.
The entire Group (companies and individuals).
People who provide services or collaborate with the Group (including the Board of Directors).
Suppliers of product and non-product that supply materials, products or services that may pose a material risk, as well as their supply chain.
Sustainability department and its chief officer.
Accountability framework.
Conclusions of the Global Assessment Report on Biodiversity and Ecosystem Services issued by IPBES.
The Kunming-Montreal Global Biodiversity Framework.
Consultations throughout development with expert organisations such as the World Wildlife Fund (WWF), Conservation International and Canopy.
Participation of the Social Advisory Board.
Through our Ecosystems and Biodiversity Policy, and the Sustainability and Water Policies, we establish the Company’s principles and commitments in regard to the impacts relating to the exploitation, conversion and degradation of ecosystems and natural resources, and with dependencies on ecosystems and biodiversity, considering physical and transition risks deriving from them.
We understand the relevance of comprehending the inter-relationship between the impacts, risks and dependencies, and the opportunities and best solutions to address them.
This understanding is essential to tackle pressures leading to biodiversity loss and degradation of nature, such as climate change and pollution.
We endeavour to ensure the coexistence of productive uses and the protection of ecosystems and the environment.
For example, by means of regenerative practices aimed at improving fertile soil health, water quality and supply, climate change mitigation, community welfare and biodiversity protection.
Refusal to use materials and products linked to deforestation, sourcing from primary and endangered forests and ecosystem conversion and degradation.
Sourcing of products, supplies and raw materials with lower overall impact.
Facilitate the transition to improved agricultural management systems.
Promote the development and implementation of technological innovations to reduce the environmental impact of products and activities.
Participate in nature protection initiatives and promote regulation to protect and restore natural ecosystems.
Our policies also take into consideration the protection of oceans.
We draw on our new Water Policy, in which we acknowledge the need to pay particular attention to impacts on the hydrosphere (which includes rivers, lakes, wetlands, aquifers and oceans), given its pivotal role as ecosystem services providers, such as the supply of water, the sustenance of biodiversity and their contribution towards mitigation and adaptation to climate change.
We work with NGOs and local authorities in conservation and restoration projects that prevent further deterioration and improve the condition of bodies of water, identifying and prioritising critical areas, such as in initiatives like the Arctic Corporate Shipping Pledge and The Fashion Pact.
It is crucial to understand that the impacts on ecosystems and biodiversity also have a social dimension.
Our policies acknowledge that progress in respect for human rights includes fostering the right to a clean, healthy and sustainable environment as a cornerstone of economic development, sustainability, social justice and well-being.
We undertake to address these matters from a holistic perspective.
The Ecosystems and Biodiversity Policy, as part of its goal of reducing the pressures that endanger ecosystems and natural resources, proposes to advance in the mapping and traceability of the value chain.
The aim is therefore to detect and monitor the evolution of impacts and better understand the local context to address them.
Evidence of our efforts is the improvement in the traceability of natural raw materials.
At our Company we understand how important it is to preserve ecosystems to sustain society and life.
We are committed to protecting natural ecosystems in all areas of our value chain, but also wherever it is important for the well-being of communities and for biodiversity itself.
Taking as a reference the AR3T framework (Avoid, Reduce, Restore & Regenerate, Transform) proposed by the Science Based Targets Network (SBTN) and the Taskforce for Nature-related Financial Disclosure (TNFD), we implement a range of initiatives with a continuity perspective based on the principles of: / Avoid / Reduce / Restore / Regenerate / Transform.
Avoid: thus preventing damage in the first place.
We implement actions designed to avoid negative impacts on ecosystems of high biodiversity value, such as primary forests or the habitats of endangered species.
In particular, we ensure that all forest raw materials we use —such as wood or pulp— come from certification programmes and initiatives that aim to ensure they are sourced from responsibly managed farming and not from primary and endangered forests.
Our paper or wood products and wooden furniture in our stores must be certified by the Forest Stewardship Council (FSC), Programme for the Endorsement of Forest Certification (PEFC) or FLEGT-licensed.
We only work with suppliers of fibres derived from cellulose pulp that demonstrate their sourcing is free from primary and endangered forests, classified as ‘green shirts’ in the Hot Button Report by Canopy, an organisation we have been working with since 2014 to further primary and endangered forests protection.
We undertake to avoid a possible effect on areas of High Conservation Value (HCV), the preservation of which is the basis of the certificates that we require.
This corporate responsibility is reinforced with the publication of our Ecosystems and Biodiversity Policy, which replaces the previous Forest Product Policy and broadens its scope.
Reduce: how we minimise our impact on biodiversity.
After avoiding negative impacts from occurring, our next focus is to reduce the impacts in biodiversity that might arise as a result of our activity.
We implement decarbonisation initiatives in our value chain, as well as reducing the impact of pollution and optimising water consumption in our supply chain.
Notable among these is the Supply Chain Environmental Transformation Plan 2024-2027.
We work continuously on innovation in materials and processes to reduce their impact on the environment and people, within the framework of our Fibres Plan, and in particular in the Cotton Strategy.
Restore: we support the conservation, protection and restoration of ecosystems and biodiversity.
We continuously work with various organisations to foster restoration, protection and other forms of improvement through projects such as: / The restoration of the forest landscape in Mexico, improving forestry management in harmony with biodiversity in China, and promoting coexistence with wildlife in Brazil and Bolivia in partnership with WWF.
The contribution to the implementation of a cross-border collaboration initiative to protect and restore ecosystems and community resilience in India, Bhutan, Nepal and Bangladesh through the Mountains to Mangroves initiative led by Conservation International.
The promotion of sustainable forestry in Spain and Portugal in collaboration with the Galician Forestry Association and the Portuguese Forestry Association (Forestis).
Monitoring and restoration work with the Brazilian organisation SOS Mata Atlântica, to prevent the degradation of the Atlantic Forest.
Fostering coordination among global seed banks in partnership with Kew Gardens to resolve the issue of the lack of seeds for restoration efforts.
In 2024, we achieved the milestone of 622,878 hectares in the process of restoration or restored, 352,484 hectares more than in 2023, through various initiatives carried out globally in our supply chain and, mainly, in the areas and communities where we are present, even if they are not directly linked to our activity.
We allocated 7.2 million euros to their implementation, included under Operating expenses in the Consolidated Income Statement (see Note 6 to the Consolidated Annual Accounts) and part of the #BRINGYOUROWNBAG (#TRAETUBOLSA) initiative.
Regenerate: revitalising soils and ecosystems to sustain communities and biodiversity.
We also promote regenerative agricultural and land management practices aimed at fostering a balance between productive land use and healthy ecosystems.
These initiatives, which we develop continuously, promote the preservation of nutrients in the soil and enhance its capacity to absorb carbon, positively addressing climate change, as well as improving water management and quality, the conservation of local biodiversity and the resilience of local communities.
It is worth underscoring: / Fostering regenerative practices in cotton growing in India and Pakistan, in collaboration with Organic Cotton Accelerator (OCA).
Support for the transition to regenerative practices in India, fostering communities’ resilience in collaboration with Action Social Advancement (ASA), the Laudes Foundation, IDH - the Sustainable Trade Initiative and WWF India.
Investment through the Regenerative Fund for Nature alongside Conservation International and the Kering Group to implement regenerative approaches in farming communities in Argentina and South Africa.
As a result, in 2024, we reached 135,656 hectares in the process of regeneration or regenerated, 10,942 hectares more than in 2023, through various initiatives carried out globally in our supply chain and other surrounding or related areas.
We allocated 6.2 million euros to the implementation of this action, included under Operating Expenses in the Consolidated Income Statement (see Note 6 to the Consolidated Annual Accounts) and part of the #BRINGYOUROWNBAG (#TRAETUBOLSA) initiative.
Transform: key to protecting biodiversity in the long term.
The transformation of production processes is essential to preserve ecosystems and biodiversity.
We support initiatives aimed at driving this transformation, in particular through coordinated and collective action between key agents.
Our projects to protect biodiversity and ecosystems mainly involve the following stakeholders: / Environment: we involve organisations that represent it in the design of our strategies and implementation of our actions, especially those focused on having a positive impact on the environment and biodiversity.
Suppliers: given that our impacts on biodiversity and ecosystems concentrates in our value chain, the commitment of all actors involved is key to attaining our goals.
In this regard, we work with our suppliers to incorporate best practices.
Communities: in keeping with our goal of contributing to the development of a fair and resilient society and a healthy environment underpinning it, our programmes are aimed at preserving and restoring nature while respecting the rights and well-being of local communities.
No biodiversity offsets have been used in relation to our actions.
With the aim of promoting the conservation of ecosystems and biodiversity, we work with a number of specialist organisations and coalitions such as Business for Nature, Open Planet Business for Biodiversity (OP2B), LEAF Coalition and The Fashion Pact, among others.
It is worth underscoring our adherence to Deforestation-Free Call to Action for Leather, led by Textile Exchange and the Leather Working Group (LWG), which promotes supply chains that only use deforestation-free leather, and the Pack4Good initiative driven by Canopy to transform the procurement of packaging materials.
Our commitment to biodiversity and ecosystems is evidenced by our intention of acting to protect, restore, regenerate or otherwise improve biodiversity across five million hectares throughout our value chain and beyond.
Other related commitments, such as GHG emission reduction and climate neutrality targets, are also worth highlighting, given the impact of climate change on natural ecosystems.
The responsible management of natural resources allows us to reduce our environmental impact.
In keeping with our Fibres Plan, we foster the use of lower-impact fibres and materials18.
We have also set ourselves the target of a 25% reduction in water consumption in our supply chain by 2025, in line with our Water Policy, as we are mindful of how important water is for biodiversity and ecosystems.
Our key commitment in connection with biodiversity and ecosystems is to protect, restore, regenerate, or take other management approaches for the improvement of biodiversity in an area of five million hectares.
This target is linked to our Sustainability Policy and, more specifically, to our Ecosystems and Biodiversity Policy.
They both establish our commitment to the protection of ecosystems and biodiversity —in turn aligned with our pledge to contribute to the development of a fair and resilient society and a clean, healthy and sustainable environment that sustains it-.
To achieve this target, we collaborate with expert organisations such as the World Wide Fund for Nature (WWF) or Conservation International in the various initiatives to regenerate and restore ecosystems detailed in this standard.
This target, along with the actions for achieving it, addresses the protection and improvement of biodiversity and ecosystems, both within and beyond our value chain, as part of the ‘Restore & Regenerate’ category of SBTN’s action framework, adapting the mitigation hierarchy.
We defined this target being aware of the impacts of our activity on the environment and our will to positively contribute to its recovery.
It is in line with the goals of the European Union Biodiversity Strategy for 2030 and the Kunming-Montreal Global Biodiversity Framework.
Our materiality assessment identified certain of our own facilities located near biodiversity-sensitive areas.
We have not found any material negative impacts in those areas.
We have identified potential impacts related to our value chain.
At Inditex we are in the process of compiling new information to supplement the measurement of this impact in our reporting for subsequent years, in accordance with the transitional provision in the CSRD, in ESRS 1, section 10.2.
The analysis of our activity, coupled with the materiality assessment and the views of our stakeholders, has allowed us to compile a list of material impacts, risks and opportunities related to resource use and circular economy.
In the process we have included the assessment of all our activities and those of our value chain, considering the various resource inflows and outflows at each stage, with the aim of identifying all the potential avenues of impact.
In general, purchases of raw materials and fabrics is not part of Inditex’s own operations.
We do take part in the selection of the raw materials used to manufacture our articles, as well as in the specifications of their characteristics.
Accordingly, when it comes to the use of resources, the associated impacts, risks and opportunities are mainly concentrated on our value chain.
Waste management and outflow is generally focused within the scope of waste generated in our own operations.
Stakeholder dialogue is a key element of our materiality analysis, as detailed previously in this Report.
Specifically, in 2024 we involved specialised organisations such as the University of Leeds in our double materiality assessment.
As well as in the materiality assessment, during the course of our activity, we also collaborate with specialised organisations that give us valuable knowledge regarding the impacts our activity might have on resource use and circular economy.
Among these, we highlight our involvement with standard-bearing organisations in circularity, in terms of both lower-impact fibres and materials (Textile Exchange and Canopy, as well as many others) and packaging (Ellen MacArthur Foundation).
This continuous engagement also allows us to develop new targets and actions linked to the proper management of our impacts, risks and opportunities.
